

to iron his hands afterward” — he showed Harry ten 
long, bandaged fingers — “but Dobby didn’t care, sir, 
for he thought Harry Potter was safe, and never did 
Dobby dream that Harry Potter would get to school 
another way!” 

He was rocking backward and forward, shaking his 
ugly head. 

“Dobby was so shocked when he heard Harry Potter 
was back at Hogwarts, he let his master’s dinner 
burn! Such a flogging Dobby never had, sir. ...” 

Harry slumped back onto his pillows. 

“You nearly got Ron and me expelled,” he said 
fiercely. “You’d better get lost before my bones come 
back, Dobby, or I might strangle you.” 

Dobby smiled weakly. 

“Dobby is used to death threats, sir. Dobby gets them 
five times a day at home.” 

He blew his nose on a corner of the filthy pillowcase 
he wore, looking so pathetic that Harry felt his anger 
ebb away in spite of himself. 

“Why d’you wear that thing, Dobby?” he asked 
curiously. 

“This, sir?” said Dobby, plucking at the pillowcase. “ 
Tis a mark of the house-elf’s enslavement, sir. Dobby 
can only be freed if his masters present him with 
clothes, sir. The family is careful not to pass Dobby 
even a sock, sir, for then he would be free to leave 
their house forever.” 



Page | 197 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Dobby mopped his bulging eyes and said suddenly, 
“Harry Potter must go home! Dobby thought his 
Bludger would be enough to make — ” 

“Your Bludger?” said Harry, anger rising once more. 
“What d’you mean, your Bludger? You made that 
Bludger try and kill me?” 

“Not kill you, sir, never kill you!” said Dobby, 
shocked. “Dobby wants to save Harry Potter’s life! 
Better sent home, grievously injured, than remain 
here, sir! Dobby only wanted Harry Potter hurt 
enough to be sent home!” 

“Oh, is that all?” said Harry angrily. “I don’t suppose 
you’re going to tell me why you wanted me sent home 
in pieces?” 

“Ah, if Harry Potter only knew!” Dobby groaned, more 
tears dripping onto his ragged pillowcase. “If he knew 
what he means to us, to the lowly, the enslaved, we 
dregs of the magical world! Dobby remembers how it 
was when He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named was at the 
height of his powers, sir! We house-elves were treated 
like vermin, sir! Of course, Dobby is still treated like 
that, sir,” he admitted, drying his face on the 
pillowcase. “But mostly, sir, life has improved for my 
kind since you triumphed over He-Who-Must-Not-Be- 
Named. Harry Potter survived, and the Dark Lord’s 
power was broken, and it was a new dawn, sir, and 
Harry Potter shone like a beacon of hope for those of 
us who thought the Dark days would never end, sir. 

... And now, at Hogwarts, terrible things are to 
happen, are perhaps happening already, and Dobby 
cannot let Harry Potter stay here now that history is 
to repeat itself, now that the Chamber of Secrets is 
open once more — ” 



Page | 198 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Dobby froze, horrors truck, then grabbed Harry’s 
water jug from his bedside table and cracked it over 
his own head, toppling out of sight. A second later, he 
crawled back onto the bed, cross-eyed, muttering, 
“Bad Dobby, very bad Dobby ...” 

“So there is a Chamber of Secrets?” Harry whispered. 
“And — did you say it’s been opened before ? Tell me, 
Dobby!” 

He seized the elf’s bony wrist as Dobby’s hand inched 
toward the water jug. “But I’m not Muggle-born — 
how can I be in danger from the Chamber?” 

“Ah, sir, ask no more, ask no more of poor Dobby,” 
stammered the elf, his eyes huge in the dark. “Dark 
deeds are planned in this place, but Harry Potter 
must not be here when they happen — go home, 

Harry Potter, go home. Harry Potter must not meddle 
in this, sir, ’tis too dangerous — ” 

“Who is it, Dobby?” Harry said, keeping a firm hold on 
Dobby’s wrist to stop him from hitting himself with 
the water jug again. “Who’s opened it? Who opened it 
last time?” 

“Dobby can’t, sir, Dobby can’t, Dobby mustn’t tell!” 
squealed the elf. “Go home, Harry Potter, go home!” 

“I’m not going anywhere!” said Harry fiercely. “One of 
my best friends is Muggle-born; she’ll be first in line if 
the Chamber really has been opened — ” 

“Harry Potter risks his own life for his friends!” 
moaned Dobby in a kind of miserable ecstasy. “So 
noble! So valiant! But he must save himself, he must, 
Harry Potter must not — ” 



Page | 199 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Dobby suddenly froze, his bat ears quivering. Harry 
heard it, too. There were footsteps coming down the 
passageway outside. 

“Dobby must go!” breathed the elf, terrified. There 
was a loud crack, and Harry’s fist was suddenly 
clenched on thin air. He slumped back into bed, his 
eyes on the dark doorway to the hospital wing as the 
footsteps drew nearer. 

Next moment, Dumbledore was backing into the 
dormitory, wearing a long woolly dressing gown and a 
nightcap. He was carrying one end of what looked like 
a statue. Professor McGonagall appeared a second 
later, carrying its feet. Together, they heaved it onto a 
bed. 

“Get Madam Pomfrey,” whispered Dumbledore, and 
Professor McGonagall hurried past the end of Harry’s 
bed out of sight. Harry lay quite still, pretending to be 
asleep. He heard urgent voices, and then Professor 
McGonagall swept back into view, closely followed by 
Madam Pomfrey, who was pulling a cardigan on over 
her nightdress. He heard a sharp intake of breath. 

“What happened?” Madam Pomfrey whispered to 
Dumbledore, bending over the statue on the bed. 

“Another attack,” said Dumbledore. “Minerva found 
him on the stairs.” 

“There was a bunch of grapes next to him,” said 
Professor McGonagall. “We think he was trying to 
sneak up here to visit Potter.” 

Harry’s stomach gave a horrible lurch. Slowly and 
carefully, he raised himself a few inches so he could 
look at the statue on the bed. A ray of moonlight lay 
across its staring face. 

Page | 200 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




It was Colin Creevey. His eyes were wide and his 
hands were stuck up in front of him, holding his 
camera. 

“Petrified?” whispered Madam Pomfrey. 

“Yes,” said Professor McGonagall. “But I shudder to 
think ... If Albus hadn’t been on the way downstairs 
for hot chocolate — who knows what might have — ” 

The three of them stared down at Colin. Then 
Dumbledore leaned forward and wrenched the 
camera out of Colin’s rigid grip. 

“You don’t think he managed to get a picture of his 
attacker?” said Professor McGonagall eagerly. 

Dumbledore didn’t answer. He opened the back of the 
camera. 

“Good gracious!” said Madam Pomfrey. 

A jet of steam had hissed out of the camera. Harry, 
three beds away, caught the acrid smell of burnt 
plastic. 

“Melted,” said Madam Pomfrey wonderingly. “All 
melted ...” 

“What does this mean, Albus?” Professor McGonagall 
asked urgently. 

“It means,” said Dumbledore, “that the Chamber of 
Secrets is indeed open again.” 

Madam Pomfrey clapped a hand to her mouth. 
Professor McGonagall stared at Dumbledore. 

“But, Albus ... surely ... who?” 

Page | 201 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“The question is not who,” said Dumbledore, his eyes 
on Colin. “The question is, how. ...” 

And from what Harry could see of Professor 
McGonagall’s shadowy face, she didn’t understand 
this any better than he did. 



Page | 202 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 






THE DUELING CLUB 

Harry woke up on Sunday morning to find the 
dormitory blazing with winter sunlight and his arm 
reboned but very stiff. He sat up quickly and looked 
over at Colin’s bed, but it had been blocked from view 
by the high curtains Harry had changed behind 
yesterday. Seeing that he was awake, Madam Pomfrey 
came bustling over with a breakfast tray and then 
began bending and stretching his arm and fingers. 

“All in order,” she said as he clumsily fed himself 
porridge left-handed. “When you’ve finished eating, 
you may leave.” 

Harry dressed as quickly as he could and hurried off 
to Gryffindor Tower, desperate to tell Ron and 
Hermione about Colin and Dobby, but they weren’t 
there. Harry left to look for them, wondering where 
they could have got to and feeling slightly hurt that 
they weren’t interested in whether he had his bones 
back or not. 



Page | 203 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 



As Harry passed the library, Percy Weasley strolled 
out of it, looking in far better spirits than last time 
they’d met. 

“Oh, hello, Harry,” he said. “Excellent flying 
yesterday, really excellent. Gryffindor has just taken 
the lead for the House Cup — you earned fifty points!” 

“You haven’t seen Ron or Hermione, have you?” said 
Harry. 

“No, I haven’t,” said Percy, his smile fading. “I hope 
Ron’s not in another girls’ toilet ...” 

Harry forced a laugh, watched Percy walk out of sight, 
and then headed straight for Moaning Myrtle’s 
bathroom. He couldn’t see why Ron and Hermione 
would be in there again, but after making sure that 
neither Filch nor any prefects were around, he opened 
the door and heard their voices coming from a locked 
stall. 

“It’s me,” he said, closing the door behind him. There 
was a clunk, a splash, and a gasp from within the 
stall and he saw Hermione ’s eye peering through the 
keyhole. 

“Harry\” she said. “You gave us such a fright — come 
in — how’s your arm?” 

“Fine,” said Harry, squeezing into the stall. An old 
cauldron was perched on the toilet, and a crackling 
from under the rim told Harry they had lit a fire 
beneath it. Conjuring up portable, waterproof fires 
was a speciality of Hermione ’s. 

“We ’d’ve come to meet you, but we decided to get 
started on the Polyjuice Potion,” Ron explained as 



Page | 204 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Harry, with difficulty, locked the stall again. “We’ve 
decided this is the safest place to hide it.” 

Harry started to tell them about Colin, but Hermione 
interrupted. 

“We already know — we heard Professor McGonagall 
telling Professor Flitwick this morning. That’s why we 
decided we’d better get going — ” 

“The sooner we get a confession out of Malfoy, the 
better,” snarled Ron. “D’you know what I think? He 
was in such a foul temper after the Quidditch match, 
he took it out on Colin.” 

“There’s something else,” said Harry, watching 
Hermione tearing bundles of knotgrass and throwing 
them into the potion. “Dobby came to visit me in the 
middle of the night.” 

Ron and Hermione looked up, amazed. Harry told 
them everything Dobby had told him — or hadn’t told 
him. Hermione and Ron listened with their mouths 
open. 

“The Chamber of Secrets has been opened before?” 
Hermione said. 

“This settles it,” said Ron in a triumphant voice. 
“Lucius Malfoy must’ve opened the Chamber when he 
was at school here and now he’s told dear old Draco 
how to do it. It’s obvious. Wish Dobby ’d told you what 
kind of monster’s in there, though. I want to know 
how come nobody’s noticed it sneaking around the 
school.” 

“Maybe it can make itself invisible,” said Hermione, 
prodding leeches to the bottom of the cauldron. “Or 
maybe it can disguise itself — pretend to be a suit of 

Page | 205 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




armor or something — I’ve read about Chameleon 
Ghouls — ” 



“You read too much, Hermione,” said Ron, pouring 
dead lacewings on top of the leeches. He crumpled up 
the empty lacewing bag and looked at Harry. 

“So Dobby stopped us from getting on the train and 
broke your arm. ...” He shook his head. “You know 
what, Harry? If he doesn’t stop trying to save your life 
he’s going to kill you.” 



k k k 



The news that Colin Creevey had been attacked and 
was now lying as though dead in the hospital wing 
had spread through the entire school by Monday 
morning. The air was suddenly thick with rumor and 
suspicion. The first years were now moving around 
the castle in tight-knit groups, as though scared they 
would be attacked if they ventured forth alone. 

Ginny Weasley, who sat next to Colin Creevey in 
Charms, was distraught, but Harry felt that Fred and 
George were going the wrong way about cheering her 
up. They were taking turns covering themselves with 
fur or boils and jumping out at her from behind 
statues. They only stopped when Percy, apoplectic 
with rage, told them he was going to write to Mrs. 
Weasley and tell her Ginny was having nightmares. 

Meanwhile, hidden from the teachers, a roaring trade 
in talismans, amulets, and other protective devices 
was sweeping the school. Neville Longbottom bought 
a large, evil-smelling green onion, a pointed purple 
crystal, and a rotting newt tail before the other 
Gryffindor boys pointed out that he was in no danger; 



Page | 206 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




he was a pureblood, and therefore unlikely to be 
attacked. 

“They went for Filch first,” Neville said, his round face 
fearful. “And everyone knows I’m almost a Squib.” 

In the second week of December Professor 
McGonagall came around as usual, collecting names 
of those who would be staying at school for 
Christmas. Harry, Ron, and Hermione signed her list; 
they had heard that Malfoy was staying, which struck 
them as very suspicious. The holidays would be the 
perfect time to use the Polyjuice Potion and try to 
worm a confession out of him. 

Unfortunately, the potion was only half finished. They 
still needed the bicorn horn and the boomslang skin, 
and the only place they were going to get them was 
from Snape’s private stores. Harry privately felt he’d 
rather face Slytherin’s legendary monster than let 
Snape catch him robbing his office. 

“What we need,” said Hermione briskly as Thursday 
afternoon’s double Potions lesson loomed nearer, “is a 
diversion. Then one of us can sneak into Snape’s 
office and take what we need.” 

Harry and Ron looked at her nervously. 

“I think I’d better do the actual stealing,” Hermione 
continued in a matter-of-fact tone. “You two will be 
expelled if you get into any more trouble, and I’ve got 
a clean record. So all you need to do is cause enough 
mayhem to keep Snape busy for five minutes or so.” 

Harry smiled feebly. Deliberately causing mayhem in 
Snape’s Potions class was about as safe as poking a 
sleeping dragon in the eye. 



Page | 207 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Potions lessons took place in one of the large 
dungeons. Thursday afternoon’s lesson proceeded in 
the usual way. Twenty cauldrons stood steaming 
between the wooden desks, on which stood brass 
scales and jars of ingredients. Snape prowled through 
the fumes, making waspish remarks about the 
Gryffindors’ work while the Slytherins sniggered 
appreciatively. Draco Malfoy, who was Snape’s 
favorite student, kept flicking puffer-fish eyes at Ron 
and Harry, who knew that if they retaliated they 
would get detention faster than you could say 
“Unfair.” 

Harry’s Swelling Solution was far too runny, but he 
had his mind on more important things. He was 
waiting for Hermione’s signal, and he hardly listened 
as Snape paused to sneer at his watery potion. When 
Snape turned and walked off to bully Neville, 
Hermione caught Harry’s eye and nodded. 

Harry ducked swiftly down behind his cauldron, 
pulled one of Fred’s Filibuster fireworks out of his 
pocket, and gave it a quick prod with his wand. The 
firework began to fizz and sputter. Knowing he had 
only seconds, Harry straightened up, took aim, and 
lobbed it into the air; it landed right on target in 
Goyle’s cauldron. 

Goyle’s potion exploded, showering the whole class. 
People shrieked as splashes of the Swelling Solution 
hit them. Malfoy got a faceful and his nose began to 
swell like a balloon; Goyle blundered around, his 
hands over his eyes, which had expanded to the size 
of a dinner plate — Snape was trying to restore calm 
and find out what had happened. Through the 
confusion, Harry saw Hermione slip quietly into 
Snape’s office. 



Page | 208 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Silence! SILENCE!” Snape roared. “Anyone who has 
been splashed, come here for a Deflating Draught — 
when I find out who did this — ” 

Harry tried not to laugh as he watched Malfoy hurry 
forward, his head drooping with the weight of a nose 
like a small melon. As half the class lumbered up to 
Snape ’s desk, some weighted down with arms like 
clubs, others unable to talk through gigantic puffed- 
up lips, Harry saw Hermione slide back into the 
dungeon, the front of her robes bulging. 

When everyone had taken a swig of antidote and the 
various swellings had subsided, Snape swept over to 
Goyle’s cauldron and scooped out the twisted black 
remains of the firework. There was a sudden hush. 

“If I ever find out who threw this,” Snape whispered, “I 
shall make sure that person is expelled.” 

Harry arranged his face into what he hoped was a 
puzzled expression. Snape was looking right at him, 
and the bell that rang ten minutes later could not 
have been more welcome. 

“He knew it was me,” Harry told Ron and Hermione as 
they hurried back to Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom. “I 
could tell.” 

Hermione threw the new ingredients into the cauldron 
and began to stir feverishly. 

“It’ll be ready in two weeks,” she said happily. 

“Snape can’t prove it was you,” said Ron reassuringly 
to Harry. “What can he do?” 

“Knowing Snape, something foul,” said Harry as the 
potion frothed and bubbled. 

Page | 209 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




A week later, Harry, Ron, and Hermione were walking 
across the entrance hall when they saw a small knot 
of people gathered around the notice board, reading a 
piece of parchment that had just been pinned up. 
Seamus Finnigan and Dean Thomas beckoned them 
over, looking excited. 

“They’re starting a Dueling Club!” said Seamus. “First 
meeting tonight! I wouldn’t mind dueling lessons; 
they might come in handy one of these days. ...” 

“What, you reckon Slytherin’s monster can duel?” 
said Ron, but he, too, read the sign with interest. 

“Could be useful,” he said to Harry and Hermione as 
they went into dinner. “Shall we go?” 

Harry and Hermione were all for it, so at eight o’clock 
that evening they hurried back to the Great Hall. The 
long dining tables had vanished and a golden stage 
had appeared along one wall, lit by thousands of 
candles floating overhead. The ceiling was velvety 
black once more and most of the school seemed to be 
packed beneath it, all carrying their wands and 
looking excited. 

“I wonder who’ll be teaching us?” said Hermione as 
they edged into the chattering crowd. “Someone told 
me Flitwick was a dueling champion when he was 
young — maybe it’ll be him.” 

“As long as it’s not — ” Harry began, but he ended on 
a groan: Gilderoy Lockhart was walking onto the 
stage, resplendent in robes of deep plum and 
accompanied by none other than Snape, wearing his 
usual black. 



Page | 210 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Lockhart waved an arm for silence and called, 

“Gather round, gather round! Can everyone see me? 
Can you all hear me? Excellent! 

“Now, Professor Dumbledore has granted me 
permission to start this little dueling club, to train 
you all in case you ever need to defend yourselves as I 
myself have done on countless occasions — for full 
details, see my published works. 

“Let me introduce my assistant, Professor Snape,” 
said Lockhart, flashing a wide smile. “He tells me he 
knows a tiny little bit about dueling himself and has 
sportingly agreed to help me with a short 
demonstration before we begin. Now, I don’t want any 
of you youngsters to worry — you’ll still have your 
Potions master when I’m through with him, never 
fear!” 

“Wouldn’t it be good if they finished each other off?” 
Ron muttered in Harry’s ear. 

Snape ’s upper lip was curling. Harry wondered why 
Lockhart was still smiling; if Snape had been looking 
at him like that he’d have been running as fast as he 
could in the opposite direction. 

Lockhart and Snape turned to face each other and 
bowed; at least, Lockhart did, with much twirling of 
his hands, whereas Snape jerked his head irritably. 
Then they raised their wands like swords in front of 
them. 

“As you see, we are holding our wands in the 
accepted combative position,” Lockhart told the silent 
crowd. “On the count of three, we will cast our first 
spells. Neither of us will be aiming to kill, of course.” 



Page | 211 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“I wouldn’t bet on that,” Harry murmured, watching 
Snape baring his teeth. 

“One — two — three — ” 

Both of them swung their wands above their heads 
and pointed them at their opponent; Snape cried: 

“ ExpelliarmusV’ There was a dazzling flash of scarlet 
light and Lockhart was blasted off his feet: He flew 
backward off the stage, smashed into the wall, and 
slid down it to sprawl on the floor. 

Malfoy and some of the other Slytherins cheered. 
Hermione was dancing on tiptoes. “Do you think he’s 
all right?” she squealed through her fingers. 

“Who cares?” said Harry and Ron together. 

Lockhart was getting unsteadily to his feet. His hat 
had fallen off and his wavy hair was standing on end. 

“Well, there you have it!” he said, tottering back onto 
the platform. “That was a Disarming Charm — as you 
see, I’ve lost my wand — ah, thank you, Miss Brown 
— yes, an excellent idea to show them that, Professor 
Snape, but if you don’t mind my saying so, it was very 
obvious what you were about to do. If I had wanted to 
stop you it would have been only too easy — however, 

I felt it would be instructive to let them see ...” 

Snape was looking murderous. Possibly Lockhart had 
noticed, because he said, “Enough demonstrating! I’m 
going to come amongst you now and put you all into 
pairs. Professor Snape, if you’d like to help me — ” 

They moved through the crowd, matching up 
partners. Lockhart teamed Neville with Justin Finch- 
Fletchley, but Snape reached Harry and Ron first. 



Page | 212 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Time to split up the dream team, I think,” he 
sneered. “Weasley, you can partner Finnigan. Potter 



Harry moved automatically toward Hermione. 

“I don’t think so,” said Snape, smiling coldly. “Mr. 
Malfoy, come over here. Let’s see what you make of 
the famous Potter. And you, Miss Granger — you can 
partner Miss Bulstrode.” 

Malfoy strutted over, smirking. Behind him walked a 
Slytherin girl who reminded Harry of a picture he’d 
seen in Holidays with Hags. She was large and square 
and her heavy jaw jutted aggressively. Hermione gave 
her a weak smile that she did not return. 

“Face your partners!” called Lockhart, back on the 
platform. “And bow!” 

Harry and Malfoy barely inclined their heads, not 
taking their eyes off each other. 

“Wands at the ready!” shouted Lockhart. “When I 
count to three, cast your charms to disarm your 
opponents — only to disarm them — we don’t want 
any accidents — one . . . two . . . three — ” 

Harry swung his wand high, but Malfoy had already 
started on “two”: His spell hit Harry so hard he felt as 
though he’d been hit over the head with a saucepan. 
He stumbled, but everything still seemed to be 
working, and wasting no more time, Harry pointed his 
wand straight at Malfoy and shouted, “Rictusempral” 

A jet of silver light hit Malfoy in the stomach and he 
doubled up, wheezing. 



Page | 213 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“I said disarm only\” Lockhart shouted in alarm over 
the heads of the battling crowd, as Malfoy sank to his 
knees; Harry had hit him with a Tickling Charm, and 
he could barely move for laughing. Harry hung back, 
with a vague feeling it would be unsporting to bewitch 
Malfoy while he was on the floor, but this was a 
mistake; gasping for breath, Malfoy pointed his wand 
at Harry’s knees, choked, “Tarantallegral” and the 
next second Harry’s legs began to jerk around out of 
his control in a kind of quickstep. 

“Stop! Stop!” screamed Lockhart, but Snape took 
charge. 

“Finite Incantatem\” he shouted; Harry’s feet stopped 
dancing, Malfoy stopped laughing, and they were able 
to look up. 

A haze of greenish smoke was hovering over the 
scene. Both Neville and Justin were lying on the floor, 
panting; Ron was holding up an ashen-faced Seamus, 
apologizing for whatever his broken wand had done; 
but Hermione and Millicent Bulstrode were still 
moving; Millicent had Hermione in a headlock and 
Hermione was whimpering in pain; both their wands 
lay forgotten on the floor. Harry leapt forward and 
pulled Millicent off. It was difficult: She was a lot 
bigger than he was. 

“Dear, dear,” said Lockhart, skittering through the 
crowd, looking at the aftermath of the duels. “Up you 
go, Macmillan. ... Careful there, Miss Fawcett. ... 
Pinch it hard, it’ll stop bleeding in a second, Boot — 

“I think I’d better teach you how to block unfriendly 
spells,” said Lockhart, standing flustered in the midst 
of the hall. He glanced at Snape, whose black eyes 
glinted, and looked quickly away. “Let’s have a 



Page | 214 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




volunteer pair — Longbottom and Finch-Fletchley, 
how about you — ” 

“A bad idea, Professor Lockhart,” said Snape, gliding 
over like a large and malevolent bat. “Longbottom 
causes devastation with the simplest spells. We’ll be 
sending what’s left of Finch-Fletchley up to the 
hospital wing in a matchbox.” Neville’s round, pink 
face went pinker. “How about Malfoy and Potter?” 
said Snape with a twisted smile. 

“Excellent idea!” said Lockhart, gesturing Harry and 
Malfoy into the middle of the hall as the crowd backed 
away to give them room. 

“Now, Harry,” said Lockhart. “When Draco points his 
wand at you, you do this.” 

He raised his own wand, attempted a complicated 
sort of wiggling action, and dropped it. Snape smirked 
as Lockhart quickly picked it up, saying, “Whoops — 
my wand is a little overexcited — ” 

Snape moved closer to Malfoy, bent down, and 
whispered something in his ear. Malfoy smirked, too. 
Harry looked up nervously at Lockhart and said, 
“Professor, could you show me that blocking thing 
again?” 

“Scared?” muttered Malfoy, so that Lockhart couldn’t 
hear him. 

“You wish,” said Harry out of the corner of his mouth. 

Lockhart cuffed Harry merrily on the shoulder. “Just 
do what I did, Harry!” 

“What, drop my wand?” 



Page | 215 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




But Lockhart wasn’t listening. 

“Three — two — one — go!” he shouted. 

Malfoy raised his wand quickly and bellowed, 

“ Serpensortial” 

The end of his wand exploded. Harry watched, aghast, 
as a long black snake shot out of it, fell heavily onto 
the floor between them, and raised itself, ready to 
strike. There were screams as the crowd backed 
swiftly away, clearing the floor. 

“Don’t move, Potter,” said Snape lazily, clearly 
enjoying the sight of Harry standing motionless, eye 
to eye with the angry snake. “I’ll get rid of it. ...” 

“Allow me!” shouted Lockhart. He brandished his 
wand at the snake and there was a loud bang; the 
snake, instead of vanishing, flew ten feet into the air 
and fell back to the floor with a loud smack. Enraged, 
hissing furiously, it slithered straight toward Justin 
Finch-Fletchley and raised itself again, fangs exposed, 
poised to strike. 

Harry wasn’t sure what made him do it. He wasn’t 
even aware of deciding to do it. All he knew was that 
his legs were carrying him forward as though he was 
on casters and that he had shouted stupidly at the 
snake, “Leave him alone!” And miraculously — 
inexplicably — the snake slumped to the floor, docile 
as a thick, black garden hose, its eyes now on Harry. 
Harry felt the fear drain out of him. He knew the 
snake wouldn’t attack anyone now, though how he 
knew it, he couldn’t have explained. 

He looked up at Justin, grinning, expecting to see 
Justin looking relieved, or puzzled, or even grateful — 
but certainly not angry and scared. 

Page | 216 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“What do you think you’re playing at?” he shouted, 
and before Harry could say anything, Justin had 
turned and stormed out of the hall. 

Snape stepped forward, waved his wand, and the 
snake vanished in a small puff of black smoke. 

Snape, too, was looking at Harry in an unexpected 
way: It was a shrewd and calculating look, and Harry 
didn’t like it. He was also dimly aware of an ominous 
muttering all around the walls. Then he felt a tugging 
on the back of his robes. 

“Come on,” said Ron’s voice in his ear. “Move — come 
on—” 



Ron steered him out of the hall, Hermione hurrying 
alongside them. As they went through the doors, the 
people on either side drew away as though they were 
frightened of catching something. Harry didn’t have a 
clue what was going on, and neither Ron nor 
Hermione explained anything until they had dragged 
him all the way up to the empty Gryffindor common 
room. Then Ron pushed Harry into an armchair and 
said, “You’re a Parselmouth. Why didn’t you tell us?” 

“I’m a what?” said Harry. 

“A Parselmouth .!” said Ron. “You can talk to snakes!” 

“I know,” said Harry. “I mean, that’s only the second 
time I’ve ever done it. I accidentally set a boa 
constrictor on my cousin Dudley at the zoo once — 
long story — but it was telling me it had never seen 
Brazil and I sort of set it free without meaning to — 
that was before I knew I was a wizard — ” 

“A boa constrictor told you it had never seen Brazil?” 
Ron repeated faintly. 



Page | 217 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“So?” said Harry. “I bet loads of people here can do it.” 



“Oh, no they can’t,” said Ron. “It’s not a very common 
gift. Harry, this is bad.” 

“What’s bad?” said Harry, starting to feel quite angry. 
“What’s wrong with everyone? Listen, if I hadn’t told 
that snake not to attack Justin — ” 

“Oh, that’s what you said to it?” 

“What d’you mean? You were there — you heard me 



“I heard you speaking Parseltongue,” said Ron. 

“Snake language. You could have been saying 
anything — no wonder Justin panicked, you sounded 
like you were egging the snake on or something — it 
was creepy, you know — ” 

Harry gaped at him. 

“I spoke a different language? But — I didn’t realize — 
how can I speak a language without knowing I can 
speak it?” 

Ron shook his head. Both he and Hermione were 
looking as though someone had died. Harry couldn’t 
see what was so terrible. 

“D’you want to tell me what’s wrong with stopping a 
massive snake biting off Justin’s head?” he said. 
“What does it matter how I did it as long as Justin 
doesn’t have to join the Headless Hunt?” 

“It matters,” said Hermione, speaking at last in a 
hushed voice, “because being able to talk to snakes 
was what Salazar Slytherin was famous for. That’s 
why the symbol of Slytherin House is a serpent.” 

Page | 218 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Harry’s mouth fell open. 



“Exactly,” said Ron. “And now the whole school’s 
going to think you’re his great-great-great-great- 
grandson or something — ” 

“But I’m not,” said Harry, with a panic he couldn’t 
quite explain. 

“You’ll find that hard to prove,” said Hermione. “He 
lived about a thousand years ago; for all we know, 
you could be.” 



•k k k 



Harry lay awake for hours that night. Through a gap 
in the curtains around his four-poster he watched 
snow starting to drift past the tower window and 
wondered ... 

Could he be a descendant of Salazar Slytherin? He 
didn’t know anything about his father’s family, after 
all. The Dursleys had always forbidden questions 
about his wizarding relatives. 

Quietly, Harry tried to say something in Parseltongue. 
The words wouldn’t come. It seemed he had to be 
face-to-face with a snake to do it. 

But I’m in Gryffindor, Harry thought. The Sorting Hat 
wouldn’t have put me in here if I had Slytherin blood. 



Ah, said a nasty little voice in his brain, but the 
Sorting Hat wanted to put you in Slytherin, don’t you 
remember? 

Harry turned over. He’d see Justin the next day in 
Herbology and he’d explain that he’d been calling the 

Page | 219 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




snake off, not egging it on, which (he thought angrily, 
pummeling his pillow) any fool should have realized. 

By next morning, however, the snow that had begun 
in the night had turned into a blizzard so thick that 
the last Herbology lesson of the term was canceled: 
Professor Sprout wanted to fit socks and scarves on 
the Mandrakes, a tricky operation she would entrust 
to no one else, now that it was so important for the 
Mandrakes to grow quickly and revive Mrs. Norris and 
Colin Creevey. 

Harry fretted about this next to the fire in the 
Gryffindor common room, while Ron and Hermione 
used their time off to play a game of wizard chess. 

“For heaven’s sake, Harry,” said Hermione, 
exasperated, as one of Ron’s bishops wrestled her 
knight off his horse and dragged him off the board. 

“Go and find Justin if it’s so important to you.” 

So Harry got up and left through the portrait hole, 
wondering where Justin might be. 

The castle was darker than it usually was in daytime 
because of the thick, swirling gray snow at every 
window. Shivering, Harry walked past classrooms 
where lessons were taking place, catching snatches of 
what was happening within. Professor McGonagall 
was shouting at someone who, by the sound of it, had 
turned his friend into a badger. Resisting the urge to 
take a look, Harry walked on by, thinking that Justin 
might be using his free time to catch up on some 
work, and deciding to check the library first. 

A group of the Hufflepuffs who should have been in 
Herbology were indeed sitting at the back of the 
library, but they didn’t seem to be working. Between 
the long lines of high bookshelves, Harry could see 

Page | 220 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




that their heads were close together and they were 
having what looked like an absorbing conversation. 
He couldn’t see whether Justin was among them. He 
was walking toward them when something of what 
they were saying met his ears, and he paused to 
listen, hidden in the Invisibility section. 

“So anyway,” a stout boy was saying, “I told Justin to 
hide up in our dormitory. I mean to say, if Potter’s 
marked him down as his next victim, it’s best if he 
keeps a low profile for a while. Of course, Justin’s 
been waiting for something like this to happen ever 
since he let slip to Potter he was Muggle-born. Justin 
actually told him he’d been down for Eton. That’s not 
the kind of thing you bandy about with Slytherin’s 
heir on the loose, is it?” 

“You definitely think it is Potter, then, Ernie?” said a 
girl with blonde pigtails anxiously. 

“Hannah,” said the stout boy solemnly, “he’s a 
Parselmouth. Everyone knows that’s the mark of a 
Dark wizard. Have you ever heard of a decent one 
who could talk to snakes? They called Slytherin 
himself Serpent-tongue.” 

There was some heavy murmuring at this, and Ernie 
went on, “Remember what was written on the wall? 
Enemies of the Heir, Beware. Potter had some sort of 
run-in with Filch. Next thing we know, Filch ’s cat’s 
attacked. That first year, Creevey, was annoying 
Potter at the Quidditch match, taking pictures of him 
while he was lying in the mud. Next thing we know — 
Creevey ’s been attacked.” 

“He always seems so nice, though,” said Hannah 
uncertainly, “and, well, he’s the one who made You- 
Know-Who disappear. He can’t be all bad, can he?” 



Page | 221 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Ernie lowered his voice mysteriously, the Hufflepuffs 
bent closer, and Harry edged nearer so that he could 
catch Ernie’s words. 

“No one knows how he survived that attack by You- 
Know-Who. I mean to say, he was only a baby when it 
happened. He should have been blasted into 
smithereens. Only a really powerful Dark wizard 
could have survived a curse like that.” He dropped his 
voice until it was barely more than a whisper, and 
said, “ That’s probably why You-Know-Who wanted to 
kill him in the first place. Didn’t want another Dark 
Lord competing with him. I wonder what other powers 
Potter’s been hiding?” 

Harry couldn’t take anymore. Clearing his throat 
loudly, he stepped out from behind the bookshelves. 

If he hadn’t been feeling so angry, he would have 
found the sight that greeted him funny: Every one of 
the Hufflepuffs looked as though they had been 
Petrified by the sight of him, and the color was 
draining out of Ernie’s face. 

“Hello,” said Harry. “I’m looking for Justin Finch- 
Fletchley.” 

The Hufflepuffs’ worst fears had clearly been 
confirmed. They all looked fearfully at Ernie. 

“What do you want with him?” said Ernie in a 
quavering voice. 

“I wanted to tell him what really happened with that 
snake at the Dueling Club,” said Harry. 

Ernie bit his white lips and then, taking a deep 
breath, said, “We were all there. We saw what 
happened.” 



Page | 222 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Then you noticed that after I spoke to it, the snake 
backed off?” said Harry. 

“All I saw,” said Ernie stubbornly, though he was 
trembling as he spoke, “was you speaking 
Parseltongue and chasing the snake toward Justin.” 

“I didn’t chase it at him!” Harry said, his voice 
shaking with anger. “It didn’t even touch him!” 

“It was a very near miss,” said Ernie. “And in case 
you’re getting ideas,” he added hastily, “I might tell 
you that you can trace my family back through nine 
generations of witches and warlocks and my blood’s 
as pure as anyone’s, so — ” 

“I don’t care what sort of blood you’ve got!” said Harry 
fiercely. “Why would I want to attack Muggle-borns?” 

“I’ve heard you hate those Muggles you live with,” said 
Ernie swiftly. 

“It’s not possible to live with the Dursleys and not 
hate them,” said Harry. “I’d like to see you try it.” 

He turned on his heel and stormed out of the library, 
earning himself a reproving glare from Madam Pince, 
who was polishing the gilded cover of a large 
spellbook. 

Harry blundered up the corridor, barely noticing 
where he was going, he was in such a fury. The result 
was that he walked into something very large and 
solid, which knocked him backward onto the floor. 

“Oh, hello, Hagrid,” Harry said, looking up. 

Hagrid’s face was entirely hidden by a woolly, snow- 
covered balaclava, but it couldn’t possibly be anyone 

Page | 223 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




else, as he filled most of the corridor in his moleskin 
overcoat. A dead rooster was hanging from one of his 
massive, gloved hands. 

“All righ’, Harry?” he said, pulling up the balaclava so 
he could speak. “Why aren’t yeh in class?” 

“Canceled,” said Harry, getting up. “What’re you doing 
in here?” 

Hagrid held up the limp rooster. 

“Second one killed this term,” he explained. “It’s 
either foxes or a Blood-Suckin’ Bugbear, an’ I need 
the headmaster’s permission ter put a charm around 
the hen coop.” 

He peered more closely at Harry from under his thick, 
snow-flecked eyebrows. 

“Yeh sure yeh’re all righ’? Yeh look all hot an’ 
bothered — ” 

Harry couldn’t bring himself to repeat what Ernie and 
the rest of the Hufflepuffs had been saying about him. 

“It’s nothing,” he said. “I’d better get going, Hagrid, it’s 
Transfiguration next and I’ve got to pick up my 
books.” 

He walked off, his mind still full of what Ernie had 
said about him. 

“Justin’s been waiting for something like this to 
happen ever since he let slip to Potter he was Muggle- 
born. ...” 

Harry stamped up the stairs and turned along 
another corridor, which was particularly dark; the 

Page | 224 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




torches had been extinguished by a strong, icy draft 
that was blowing through a loose windowpane. He 
was halfway down the passage when he tripped 
headlong over something lying on the floor. 

He turned to squint at what he’d fallen over and felt 
as though his stomach had dissolved. 

Justin Finch-Fletchley was lying on the floor, rigid 
and cold, a look of shock frozen on his face, his eyes 
staring blankly at the ceiling. And that wasn’t all. 

Next to him was another figure, the strangest sight 
Harry had ever seen. 

It was Nearly Headless Nick, no longer pearly-white 
and transparent, but black and smoky, floating 
immobile and horizontal, six inches off the floor. His 
head was half off and his face wore an expression of 
shock identical to Justin’s. 

Harry got to his feet, his breathing fast and shallow, 
his heart doing a kind of drumroll against his ribs. He 
looked wildly up and down the deserted corridor and 
saw a line of spiders scuttling as fast as they could 
away from the bodies. The only sounds were the 
muffled voices of teachers from the classes on either 
side. 

He could run, and no one would ever know he had 
been there. But he couldn’t just leave them lying 
here. ... He had to get help. ... Would anyone believe 
he hadn’t had anything to do with this? 

As he stood there, panicking, a door right next to him 
opened with a bang. Peeves the Poltergeist came 
shooting out. 



Page | 225 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Why, it’s potty wee Potter!” cackled Peeves, knocking 
Harry’s glasses askew as he bounced past him. 
“What’s Potter up to? Why’s Potter lurking — ” 

Peeves stopped, halfway through a midair somersault. 
Upside down, he spotted Justin and Nearly Headless 
Nick. He flipped the right way up, filled his lungs and, 
before Harry could stop him, screamed, “ATTACK! 
ATTACK! ANOTHER ATTACK! NO MORTAL OR 
GHOST IS SAFE! RUN FOR YOUR LIVES! 
ATTAAAACK!” 

Crash — crash — crash — door after door flew open 
along the corridor and people flooded out. For several 
long minutes, there was a scene of such confusion 
that Justin was in danger of being squashed and 
people kept standing in Nearly Headless Nick. Harry 
found himself pinned against the wall as the teachers 
shouted for quiet. Professor McGonagall came 
running, followed by her own class, one of whom still 
had black-and-white- striped hair. She used her wand 
to set off a loud bang, which restored silence, and 
ordered everyone back into their classes. No sooner 
had the scene cleared somewhat than Ernie the 
Hufflepuff arrived, panting, on the scene. 

“ Caught in the act!” Ernie yelled, his face stark white, 
pointing his finger dramatically at Harry. 

“That will do, Macmillan!” said Professor McGonagall 
sharply. 

Peeves was bobbing overhead, now grinning wickedly, 
surveying the scene; Peeves always loved chaos. As 
the teachers bent over Justin and Nearly Headless 
Nick, examining them, Peeves broke into song: 

“Oh, Potter, you rotter, oh, what have you done, 



Page | 226 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




You’re killing off students, you think it’s good fun — ” 



“That’s enough, Peeves!” barked Professor 
McGonagall, and Peeves zoomed away backward, with 
his tongue out at Harry. 

Justin was carried up to the hospital wing by 
Professor Flitwick and Professor Sinistra of the 
Astronomy department, but nobody seemed to know 
what to do for Nearly Headless Nick. In the end, 
Professor McGonagall conjured a large fan out of thin 
air, which she gave to Ernie with instructions to waft 
Nearly Headless Nick up the stairs. This Ernie did, 
fanning Nick along like a silent black hovercraft. This 
left Harry and Professor McGonagall alone together. 

“This way, Potter,” she said. 

“Professor,” said Harry at once, “I swear I didn’t — ” 

“This is out of my hands, Potter,” said Professor 
McGonagall curtly. 

They marched in silence around a corner and she 
stopped before a large and extremely ugly stone 
gargoyle. 

“Lemon drop!” she said. This was evidently a 
password, because the gargoyle sprang suddenly to 
life and hopped aside as the wall behind him split in 
two. Even full of dread for what was coming, Harry 
couldn’t fail to be amazed. Behind the wall was a 
spiral staircase that was moving smoothly upward, 
like an escalator. As he and Professor McGonagall 
stepped onto it, Harry heard the wall thud closed 
behind them. They rose upward in circles, higher and 
higher, until at last, slightly dizzy, Harry saw a 
gleaming oak door ahead, with a brass knocker in the 
shape of a griffin. 

Page | 227 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




He knew now where he was being taken. This must be 
where Dumbledore lived. 



Page | 228 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 





THE POLY JUICE POTION 

They stepped off the stone staircase at the top, and 
Professor McGonagall rapped on the door. It opened 
silently and they entered. Professor McGonagall told 
Harry to wait and left him there, alone. 

Harry looked around. One thing was certain: of all the 
teachers’ offices Harry had visited so far this year, 
Dumbledore’s was by far the most interesting. If he 
hadn’t been scared out of his wits that he was about 
to be thrown out of school, he would have been very 
pleased to have a chance to look around it. 

It was a large and beautiful circular room, full of 
funny little noises. A number of curious silver 
instruments stood on spindle-legged tables, whirring 
and emitting little puffs of smoke. The walls were 
covered with portraits of old headmasters and 
headmistresses, all of whom were snoozing gently in 
their frames. There was also an enormous, claw- 
footed desk, and, sitting on a shelf behind it, a 
shabby, tattered wizard’s hat — the Sorting Hat 



Page | 229 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 



Harry hesitated. He cast a wary eye around the 
sleeping witches and wizards on the walls. Surely it 
couldn’t hurt if he took the hat down and tried it on 
again? Just to see ... just to make sure it had put him 
in the right House — 

He walked quietly around the desk, lifted the hat from 
its shelf, and lowered it slowly onto his head. It was 
much too large and slipped down over his eyes, just 
as it had done the last time he’d put it on. Harry 
stared at the black inside of the hat, waiting. Then a 
small voice said in his ear, “Bee in your bonnet, Harry 
Potter?” 

“Er, yes,” Harry muttered. “Er — sorry to bother you 
— I wanted to ask — ” 

“You’ve been wondering whether I put you in the right 
House,” said the hat smartly. “Yes ... you were 
particularly difficult to place. But I stand by what I 
said before” — Harry’s heart leapt — “you would have 
done well in Slytherin — ” 

Harry’s stomach plummeted. He grabbed the point of 
the hat and pulled it off. It hung limply in his hand, 
grubby and faded. Harry pushed it back onto its 
shelf, feeling sick. 

“You’re wrong,” he said aloud to the still and silent 
hat. It didn’t move. Harry backed away, watching it. 
Then a strange, gagging noise behind him made him 
wheel around. 

He wasn’t alone after all. Standing on a golden perch 
behind the door was a decrepit-looking bird that 
resembled a half-plucked turkey. Harry stared at it 
and the bird looked balefully back, making its gagging 
noise again. Harry thought it looked very ill. Its eyes 



Page | 230 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




were dull and, even as Harry watched, a couple more 
feathers fell out of its tail. 

Harry was just thinking that all he needed was for 
Dumbledore ’s pet bird to die while he was alone in 
the office with it, when the bird burst into flames. 

Harry yelled in shock and backed away into the desk. 
He looked feverishly around in case there was a glass 
of water somewhere but couldn’t see one; the bird, 
meanwhile, had become a fireball; it gave one loud 
shriek and next second there was nothing but a 
smoldering pile of ash on the floor. 

The office door opened. Dumbledore came in, looking 
very somber. 

“Professor,” Harry gasped. “Your bird — I couldn’t do 
anything — he just caught fire — ” 

To Harry’s astonishment, Dumbledore smiled. 

“About time, too,” he said. “He’s been looking dreadful 
for days; I’ve been telling him to get a move on.” 

He chuckled at the stunned look on Harry’s face. 

“Fawkes is a phoenix, Harry. Phoenixes burst into 
flame when it is time for them to die and are reborn 
from the ashes. Watch him ...” 

Harry looked down in time to see a tiny, wrinkled, 
newborn bird poke its head out of the ashes. It was 
quite as ugly as the old one. 

“It’s a shame you had to see him on a Burning Day,” 
said Dumbledore, seating himself behind his desk. 
“He’s really very handsome most of the time, 
wonderful red and gold plumage. Fascinating 

Page | 231 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




creatures, phoenixes. They can carry immensely 
heavy loads, their tears have healing powers, and 
they make highly faithful pets.” 

In the shock of Fawkes catching fire, Harry had 
forgotten what he was there for, but it all came back 
to him as Dumbledore settled himself in the high 
chair behind the desk and fixed Harry with his 
penetrating, light-blue stare. 

Before Dumbledore could speak another word, 
however, the door of the office flew open with an 
almighty bang and Hagrid burst in, a wild look in his 
eyes, his balaclava perched on top of his shaggy black 
head and the dead rooster still swinging from his 
hand. 

“It wasn’ Harry, Professor Dumbledore!” said Hagrid 
urgently. “I was talkin’ ter him seconds before that 
kid was found, he never had time, sir — ” 

Dumbledore tried to say something, but Hagrid went 
ranting on, waving the rooster around in his 
agitation, sending feathers everywhere. 

“ — it can’t’ve bin him, I’ll swear it in front o’ the 
Ministry o’ Magic if I have to — ” 

“Hagrid, I — ” 

“ — yeh’ve got the wrong boy, sir, I know Harry never 



“Hagridl” said Dumbledore loudly. “I do not think that 
Harry attacked those people.” 

“Oh,” said Hagrid, the rooster falling limply at his 
side. “Right. I’ll wait outside then, Headmaster.” 



Page | 232 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




And he stomped out looking embarrassed. 

“You don’t think it was me, Professor?” Harry 
repeated hopefully as Dumbledore brushed rooster 
feathers off his desk. 

“No, Harry, I don’t,” said Dumbledore, though his face 
was somber again. “But I still want to talk to you.” 

Harry waited nervously while Dumbledore considered 
him, the tips of his long fingers together. 

“I must ask you, Harry, whether there is anything 
you’d like to tell me,” he said gently. “Anything at all.” 

Harry didn’t know what to say. He thought of Malfoy 
shouting, “You’ll be next, Mudbloods!” and of the 
Polyjuice Potion simmering away in Moaning Myrtle’s 
bathroom. Then he thought of the disembodied voice 
he had heard twice and remembered what Ron had 
said: “ Hearing voices no one else can hear isn’t a good 
sign, even in the wizarding world.” He thought, too, 
about what everyone was saying about him, and his 
growing dread that he was somehow connected with 
Salazar Slytherin. ... 

“No,” said Harry. “There isn’t anything, Professor. ...” 

The double attack on Justin and Nearly Headless 
Nick turned what had hitherto been nervousness into 
real panic. Curiously, it was Nearly Headless Nick’s 
fate that seemed to worry people most. What could 
possibly do that to a ghost? people asked each other; 
what terrible power could harm someone who was 
already dead? There was almost a stampede to book 
seats on the Hogwarts Express so that students could 
go home for Christmas. 



Page | 233 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“At this rate, well be the only ones left,” Ron told 
Harry and Hermione. “Us, Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle. 
What a jolly holiday it’s going to be.” 

Crabbe and Goyle, who always did whatever Malfoy 
did, had signed up to stay over the holidays, too. But 
Harry was glad that most people were leaving. He was 
tired of people skirting around him in the corridors, 
as though he were about to sprout fangs or spit 
poison; tired of all the muttering, pointing, and 
hissing as he passed. 

Fred and George, however, found all this very funny. 
They went out of their way to march ahead of Harry 
down the corridors, shouting, “Make way for the Heir 
of Slytherin, seriously evil wizard coming through. ...” 

Percy was deeply disapproving of this behavior. 

“It is not a laughing matter,” he said coldly. 

“Oh, get out of the way, Percy,” said Fred. “Harry’s in 
a hurry.” 

“Yeah, he’s off to the Chamber of Secrets for a cup of 
tea with his fanged servant,” said George, chortling. 

Ginny didn’t find it amusing either. 

“Oh, don’t,” she wailed every time Fred asked Harry 
loudly who he was planning to attack next, or when 
George pretended to ward Harry off with a large clove 
of garlic when they met. 

Harry didn’t mind; it made him feel better that Fred 
and George, at least, thought the idea of his being 
Slytherin ’s heir was quite ludicrous. But their antics 
seemed to be aggravating Draco Malfoy, who looked 
increasingly sour each time he saw them at it. 

Page | 234 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s because he’s bursting to say it’s really him,” said 
Ron knowingly. “You know how he hates anyone 
beating him at anything, and you’re getting all the 
credit for his dirty work.” 

“Not for long,” said Hermione in a satisfied tone. “The 
Polyjuice Potion’s nearly ready. We’ll be getting the 
truth out of him any day now.” 

At last the term ended, and a silence deep as the 
snow on the grounds descended on the castle. Harry 
found it peaceful, rather than gloomy, and enjoyed 
the fact that he, Hermione, and the Weasleys had the 
run of Gryffindor Tower, which meant they could play 
Exploding Snap loudly without bothering anyone, and 
practice dueling in private. Fred, George, and Ginny 
had chosen to stay at school rather than visit Bill in 
Egypt with Mr. and Mrs. Weasley. Percy, who 
disapproved of what he termed their childish 
behavior, didn’t spend much time in the Gryffindor 
common room. He had already told them pompously 
that he was only staying over Christmas because it 
was his duty as a prefect to support the teachers 
during this troubled time. 

Christmas morning dawned, cold and white. Harry 
and Ron, the only ones left in their dormitory, were 
woken very early by Hermione, who burst in, fully 
dressed and carrying presents for them both. 

“Wake up,” she said loudly, pulling back the curtains 
at the window. 

“Hermione — you’re not supposed to be in here — ” 
said Ron, shielding his eyes against the light. 

“Merry Christmas to you, too,” said Hermione, 
throwing him his present. “I’ve been up for nearly an 



Page | 235 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




hour, adding more lace-wings to the potion. It’s 
ready.” 

Harry sat up, suddenly wide awake. 

“Are you sure?” 

“Positive,” said Hermione, shirting Scabbers the rat so 
that she could sit down on the end of Ron’s four- 
poster. “If we’re going to do it, I say it should be 
tonight.” 

At that moment, Hedwig swooped into the room, 
carrying a very small package in her beak. 

“Hello,” said Harry happily as she landed on his bed. 
“Are you speaking to me again?” 

She nibbled his ear in an affectionate sort of way, 
which was a far better present than the one that she 
had brought him, which turned out to be from the 
Dursleys. They had sent Harry a toothpick and a note 
telling him to find out whether he’d be able to stay at 
Hogwarts for the summer vacation, too. 

The rest of Harry’s Christmas presents were far more 
satisfactory. Hagrid had sent him a large tin of treacle 
toffee, which Harry decided to soften by the fire before 
eating; Ron had given him a book called Flying with 
the Cannons, a book of interesting facts about his 
favorite Quidditch team, and Hermione had bought 
him a luxury eagle-feather quill. Harry opened the 
last present to find a new, hand-knitted sweater from 
Mrs. Weasley and a large plum cake. He read her card 
with a fresh surge of guilt, thinking about Mr. 
Weasley’s car (which hadn’t been seen since its crash 
with the Whomping Willow), and the bout of rule- 
breaking he and Ron were planning next. 



Page | 236 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




No one, not even someone dreading taking Polyjuice 
Potion later, could fail to enjoy Christmas dinner at 
Hogwarts. 

The Great Hall looked magnificent. Not only were 
there a dozen frost-covered Christmas trees and thick 
streamers of holly and mistletoe crisscrossing the 
ceiling, but enchanted snow was falling, warm and 
dry, from the ceiling. Dumbledore led them in a few of 
his favorite carols, Hagrid booming more and more 
loudly with every goblet of eggnog he consumed. 

Percy, who hadn’t noticed that Fred had bewitched 
his prefect badge so that it now read “Pin-head,” kept 
asking them all what they were sniggering at. Harry 
didn’t even care that Draco Malfoy was making loud, 
snide remarks about his new sweater from the 
Slytherin table. With a bit of luck, Malfoy would be 
getting his comeuppance in a few hours’ time. 

Harry and Ron had barely finished their third 
helpings of Christmas pudding when Hermione 
ushered them out of the hall to finalize their plans for 
the evening. 

“We still need a bit of the people you’re changing 
into,” said Hermione matter-of-factly, as though she 
were sending them to the supermarket for laundry 
detergent. “And obviously, it’ll be best if you can get 
something of Crabbe’s and Goyle’s; they’re Malfoy’s 
best friends, he’ll tell them anything. And we also 
need to make sure the real Crabbe and Goyle can’t 
burst in on us while we’re interrogating him. 

“I’ve got it all worked out,” she went on smoothly, 
ignoring Harry’s and Ron’s stupefied faces. She held 
up two plump chocolate cakes. “I’ve filled these with a 
simple Sleeping Draught. All you have to do is make 
sure Crabbe and Goyle find them. You know how 
greedy they are, they’re bound to eat them. Once 
Page | 237 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




they’re asleep, pull out a few of their hairs and hide 
them in a broom closet.” 

Harry and Ron looked incredulously at each other. 

“Hermione, I don’t think — ” 

“That could go seriously wrong — ” 

But Hermione had a steely glint in her eye not unlike 
the one Professor McGonagall sometimes had. 

“The potion will be useless without Crabbe’s and 
Goyle’s hair,” she said sternly. “You do want to 
investigate Malfoy, don’t you?” 

“Oh, all right, all right,” said Harry. “But what about 
you? Whose hair are you ripping out?” 

“I’ve already got mine!” said Hermione brightly, 
pulling a tiny bottle out of her pocket and showing 
them the single hair inside it. “Remember Millicent 
Bulstrode wrestling with me at the Dueling Club? She 
left this on my robes when she was trying to strangle 
me! And she’s gone home for Christmas — so I’ll just 
have to tell the Slytherins I’ve decided to come back.” 

When Hermione had bustled off to check on the 
Polyjuice Potion again, Ron turned to Harry with a 
doom-laden expression. 

“Have you ever heard of a plan where so many things 
could go wrong?” 

But to Harry’s and Ron’s utter amazement, stage one 
of the operation went just as smoothly as Hermione 
had said. They lurked in the deserted entrance hall 
after Christmas tea, waiting for Crabbe and Goyle 
who had remained alone at the Slytherin table, 

Page | 238 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




shoveling down fourth helpings of trifle. Harry had 
perched the chocolate cakes on the end of the 
banisters. When they spotted Crabbe and Goyle 
coming out of the Great Hall, Harry and Ron hid 
quickly behind a suit of armor next to the front door. 

“How thick can you get?” Ron whispered ecstatically 
as Crabbe gleefully pointed out the cakes to Goyle 
and grabbed them. Grinning stupidly, they stuffed the 
cakes whole into their large mouths. For a moment, 
both of them chewed greedily, looks of triumph on 
their faces. Then, without the smallest change of 
expression, they both keeled over backward onto the 
floor. 

By far the hardest part was hiding them in the closet 
across the hall. Once they were safely stowed among 
the buckets and mops, Harry yanked out a couple of 
the bristles that covered Goyle ’s forehead and Ron 
pulled out several of Crabbe ’s hairs. They also stole 
their shoes, because their own were far too small for 
Crabbe- and Goyle-size feet. Then, still stunned at 
what they had just done, they sprinted up to Moaning 
Myrtle’s bathroom. 

They could hardly see for the thick black smoke 
issuing from the stall in which Hermione was stirring 
the cauldron. Pulling their robes up over their faces, 
Harry and Ron knocked softly on the door. 

“Hermione?” 

They heard the scrape of the lock and Hermione 
emerged, shiny-faced and looking anxious. Behind 
her they heard the gloop gloop of the bubbling, 
glutinous potion. Three glass tumblers stood ready on 
the toilet seat. 

“Did you get them?” Hermione asked breathlessly. 

Page | 239 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Harry showed her Goyle’s hair. 



“Good. And I sneaked these spare robes out of the 
laundry,” Hermione said, holding up a small sack. 
“You’ll need bigger sizes once you’re Crabbe and 
Goyle.” 

The three of them stared into the cauldron. Close up, 
the potion looked like thick, dark mud, bubbling 
sluggishly. 

“I’m sure I’ve done everything right,” said Hermione, 
nervously rereading the splotched page of Moste 
Potente Potions. “It looks like the book says it should 
... once we’ve drunk it, we’ll have exactly an hour 
before we change back into ourselves.” 

“Now what?” Ron whispered. 

“We separate it into three glasses and add the hairs.” 

Hermione ladled large dollops of the potion into each 
of the glasses. Then, her hand trembling, she shook 
Millicent Bulstrode’s hair out of its bottle into the first 
glass. 

The potion hissed loudly like a boiling kettle and 
frothed madly. A second later, it had turned a sick 
sort of yellow. 

“Urgh — essence of Millicent Bulstrode,” said Ron, 
eyeing it with loathing. “Bet it tastes disgusting.” 

“Add yours, then,” said Hermione. 

Harry dropped Goyle’s hair into the middle glass and 
Ron put Crabbe’s into the last one. Both glasses 
hissed and frothed: Goyle’s turned the khaki color of 
a booger, Crabbe’s a dark, murky brown. 

Page | 240 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Hang on,” said Harry as Ron and Hermione reached 
for their glasses. “We’d better not all drink them in 
here. ... Once we turn into Crabbe and Goyle we won’t 
fit. And Millicent Bulstrode’s no pixie.” 

“Good thinking,” said Ron, unlocking the door. “We’ll 
take separate stalls.” 

Careful not to spill a drop of his Polyjuice Potion, 
Harry slipped into the middle stall. 

“Ready?” he called. 

“Ready,” came Ron’s and Hermione’s voices. 

“One — two — three — ” 

Pinching his nose, Harry drank the potion down in 
two large gulps. It tasted like overcooked cabbage. 

Immediately, his insides started writhing as though 
he’d just swallowed live snakes — doubled up, he 
wondered whether he was going to be sick — then a 
burning sensation spread rapidly from his stomach to 
the very ends of his fingers and toes — next, bringing 
him gasping to all fours, came a horrible melting 
feeling, as the skin all over his body bubbled like hot 
wax — and before his eyes, his hands began to grow, 
the fingers thickened, the nails broadened, the 
knuckles were bulging like bolts — his shoulders 
stretched painfully and a prickling on his forehead 
told him that hair was creeping down toward his 
eyebrows — his robes ripped as his chest expanded 
like a barrel bursting its hoops — his feet were agony 
in shoes four sizes too small — 

As suddenly as it had started, everything stopped. 
Harry lay facedown on the stone-cold floor, listening 
to Myrtle gurgling morosely in the end toilet. With 

Page | 241 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




difficulty, he kicked off his shoes and stood up. So 
this was what it felt like, being Goyle. His large hand 
trembling, he pulled off his old robes, which were 
hanging a foot above his ankles, pulled on the spare 
ones, and laced up Goyle’s boatlike shoes. He reached 
up to brush his hair out of his eyes and met only the 
short growth of wiry bristles, low on his forehead. 
Then he realized that his glasses were clouding his 
eyes because Goyle obviously didn’t need them — he 
took them off and called, “Are you two okay?” Goyle’s 
low rasp of a voice issued from his mouth. 

“Yeah,” came the deep grunt of Crabbe from his right. 

Harry unlocked his door and stepped in front of the 
cracked mirror. Goyle stared back at him out of dull, 
deepset eyes. Harry scratched his ear. So did Goyle. 

Ron’s door opened. They stared at each other. Except 
that he looked pale and shocked, Ron was 
indistinguishable from Crabbe, from the pudding- 
bowl haircut to the long, gorilla arms. 

“This is unbelievable,” said Ron, approaching the 
mirror and prodding Crabbe ’s flat nose. 

“Unbelievable.” 

“We’d better get going,” said Harry, loosening the 
watch that was cutting into Goyle’s thick wrist. “We’ve 
still got to find out where the Slytherin common room 
is. I only hope we can find someone to follow ...” 

Ron, who had been gazing at Harry, said, “You don’t 
know how bizarre it is to see Goyle thinking.” He 
banged on Hermione’s door. “C’mon, we need to go — ” 

A high-pitched voice answered him. 



Page | 242 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“I — I don’t think I’m going to come after all. You go 
on without me.” 

“Hermione, we know Millicent Bulstrode’s ugly, no 
one’s going to know it’s you — ” 

“No — really — I don’t think I’ll come. You two hurry 
up, you’re wasting time — ” 

Harry looked at Ron, bewildered. 

“That looks more like Goyle,” said Ron. “That’s how he 
looks every time a teacher asks him a question.” 

“Hermione, are you okay?” said Harry through the 
door. 

“Fine — I’m fine — go on — ” 

Harry looked at his watch. Five of their precious sixty 
minutes had already passed. 

“Well meet you back here, all right?” he said. 

Harry and Ron opened the door of the bathroom 
carefully, checked that the coast was clear, and set 
off. 

“Don’t swing your arms like that,” Harry muttered to 
Ron. 

“Eh?” 

“Crabbe holds them sort of stiff. ...” 

“How’s this?” 

“Yeah, that’s better. ...” 



Page | 243 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




They went down the marble staircase. All they needed 
now was a Slytherin that they could follow to the 
Slytherin common room, but there was nobody 
around. 

“Any ideas?” muttered Harry. 

“The Slytherins always come up to breakfast from 
over there,” said Ron, nodding at the entrance to the 
dungeons. The words had barely left his mouth when 
a girl with long, curly hair emerged from the entrance. 

“Excuse me,” said Ron, hurrying up to her. “We’ve 
forgotten the way to our common room.” 

“I beg your pardon?” said the girl stiffly. “Our common 
room? I’m a Ravenclaw.” 

She walked away, looking suspiciously back at them. 

Harry and Ron hurried down the stone steps into the 
darkness, their footsteps echoing particularly loudly 
as Crabbe’s and Goyle’s huge feet hit the floor, feeling 
that this wasn’t going to be as easy as they had 
hoped. 

The labyrinthine passages were deserted. They walked 
deeper and deeper under the school, constantly 
checking their watches to see how much time they 
had left. After a quarter of an hour, just when they 
were getting desperate, they heard a sudden 
movement ahead. 

“Ha!” said Ron excitedly. “There’s one of them now!” 

The figure was emerging from a side room. As they 
hurried nearer, however, their hearts sank. It wasn’t a 
Slytherin, it was Percy. 



Page | 244 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“What’re you doing down here?” said Ron in surprise. 
Percy looked affronted. 

“That,” he said stiffly, “is none of your business. It’s 
Crabbe, isn’t it?” 

“Wh — oh, yeah,” said Ron. 

“Well, get off to your dormitories,” said Percy sternly. 
“It’s not safe to go wandering around dark corridors 
these days.” 

“You are,” Ron pointed out. 

“I,” said Percy, drawing himself up, “am a prefect. 
Nothing’s about to attack me.” 

A voice suddenly echoed behind Harry and Ron. 

Draco Malfoy was strolling toward them, and for the 
first time in his life, Harry was pleased to see him. 

“There you are,” he drawled, looking at them. “Have 
you two been pigging out in the Great Hall all this 
time? I’ve been looking for you; I want to show you 
something really funny.” 

Malfoy glanced witheringly at Percy. 

“And what’re you doing down here, Weasley?” he 
sneered. 

Percy looked outraged. 

“You want to show a bit more respect to a school 
prefect!” he said. “I don’t like your attitude!” 

Malfoy sneered and motioned for Harry and Ron to 
follow him. Harry almost said something apologetic to 

Page | 245 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Percy but caught himself just in time. He and Ron 
hurried after Malfoy, who said as they turned into the 
next passage, “That Peter Weasley — ” 

“Percy,” Ron corrected him automatically. 

“Whatever,” said Malfoy. “I’ve noticed him sneaking 
around a lot lately. And I bet I know what he’s up to. 
He thinks he’s going to catch Slytherin’s heir single- 
handed.” 

He gave a short, derisive laugh. Harry and Ron 
exchanged excited looks. 

Malfoy paused by a stretch of bare, damp stone wall. 
“What’s the new password again?” he said to Harry. 
“Er — ” said Harry. 

“Oh, yeah — pure-blood\” said Malfoy, not listening, 
and a stone door concealed in the wall slid open. 
Malfoy marched through it, and Harry and Ron 
followed him. 

The Slytherin common room was a long, low 
underground room with rough stone walls and ceiling 
from which round, greenish lamps were hanging on 
chains. A fire was crackling under an elaborately 
carved mantelpiece ahead of them, and several 
Slytherins were silhouetted around it in high-backed 
chairs. 

“Wait here,” said Malfoy to Harry and Ron, motioning 
them to a pair of empty chairs set back from the fire. 
“I’ll go and get it — my father’s just sent it to me — ” 



Page | 246 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Wondering what Malfoy was going to show them, 
Harry and Ron sat down, doing their best to look at 
home. 

Malfoy came back a minute later, holding what looked 
like a newspaper clipping. He thrust it under Ron’s 
nose. 

“That’ll give you a laugh,” he said. 

Harry saw Ron's eyes widen in shock. He read the 
clipping quickly, gave a very forced laugh, and 
handed it to Harry. 

It had been clipped out of the Daily Prophet, and it 
said: 

INQUIRY AT THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC 

Arthur Weasley, Head of the Misuse of Muggle 
Artifacts Office, was today fined fifty Galleons for 
bewitching a Muggle car. 

Mr. Lucius Malfoy, a governor of Hogwarts School of 
Witchcraft and Wizardry, where the enchanted car 
crashed earlier this year, called today for Mr. 
Weasley’s resignation. 

“Weasley has brought the Ministry into disrepute,” 

Mr. Malfoy told our reporter. “He is clearly unfit to 
draw up our laws and his ridiculous Muggle 
Protection Act should be scrapped immediately.” 

Mr. Weasley was unavailable for comment, although 
his wife told reporters to clear off or she’d set the 
family ghoul on them. 



Page | 247 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Well?” said Malfoy impatiently as Harry handed the 
clipping back to him. “Don’t you think it’s funny?” 

“Ha, ha,” said Harry bleakly. 

“Arthur Weasley loves Muggles so much he should 
snap his wand in half and go and join them,” said 
Malfoy scornfully. “You’d never know the Weasleys 
were purebloods, the way they behave.” 

Ron’s — or rather, Crabbe’s — face was contorted 
with fury. 

“What’s up with you, Crabbe?” snapped Malfoy. 
“Stomachache,” Ron grunted. 

“Well, go up to the hospital wing and give all those 
Mudbloods a kick from me,” said Malfoy, snickering. 
“You know, I’m surprised the Daily Prophet hasn’t 
reported all these attacks yet,” he went on 
thoughtfully. “I suppose Dumbledore’s trying to hush 
it all up. He’ll be sacked if it doesn’t stop soon. 
Father’s always said old Dumbledore’s the worst thing 
that’s ever happened to this place. He loves Muggle- 
borns. A decent headmaster would never ’ve let slime 
like that Creevey in.” 

Malfoy started taking pictures with an imaginary 
camera and did a cruel but accurate impression of 
Colin: “ ‘Potter, can I have your picture, Potter? Can I 
have your autograph? Can I lick your shoes, please, 
Potter?’ ” 

He dropped his hands and looked at Harry and Ron. 
“What’s the matter with you two?” 



Page | 248 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Far too late, Harry and Ron forced themselves to 
laugh, but Malfoy seemed satisfied; perhaps Crabbe 
and Goyle were always slow on the uptake. 

“Saint Potter, the Mudbloods’ friend,” said Malfoy 
slowly. “He’s another one with no proper wizard 
feeling, or he wouldn’t go around with that jumped-up 
Granger Mudblood. And people think he’s Slytherin’s 
heir!” 

Harry and Ron waited with bated breath: Malfoy was 
surely seconds away from telling them it was him — 
but then — 

“I wish I knew who it is,” said Malfoy petulantly. “I 
could help them.” 

Ron’s jaw dropped so that Crabbe looked even more 
clueless than usual. Fortunately, Malfoy didn’t notice, 
and Harry, thinking fast, said, “You must have some 
idea who’s behind it all. ...” 

“You know I haven’t, Goyle, how many times do I have 
to tell you?” snapped Malfoy. “And Father won’t tell 
me anything about the last time the Chamber was 
opened either. Of course, it was fifty years ago, so it 
was before his time, but he knows all about it, and he 
says that it was all kept quiet and it’ll look suspicious 
if I know too much about it. But I know one thing — 
last time the Chamber of Secrets was opened, a 
Mudblood died. So I bet it’s a matter of time before 
one of them’s killed this time. ... I hope it’s Granger,” 
he said with relish. 

Ron was clenching Crabbe ’s gigantic fists. Feeling 
that it would be a bit of a giveaway if Ron punched 
Malfoy, Harry shot him a warning look and said, 
“D’you know if the person who opened the Chamber 
last time was caught?” 

Page | 249 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh, yeah ... whoever it was was expelled,” said 
Malfoy. “They’re probably still in Azkaban.” 



“Azkaban?” said Harry, puzzled. 

“Azkaban — the wizard prison , Goyle,” said Malfoy, 
looking at him in disbelief. “Honestly, if you were any 
slower, you’d be going backward.” 

He shifted restlessly in his chair and said, “Father 
says to keep my head down and let the Heir of 
Slytherin get on with it. He says the school needs 
ridding of all the Mudblood filth, but not to get mixed 
up in it. Of course, he’s got a lot on his plate at the 
moment. You know the Ministry of Magic raided our 
manor last week?” 

Harry tried to force Goyle ’s dull face into a look of 
concern. 

“Yeah ...” said Malfoy. “Luckily, they didn’t find much. 
Father’s got some very valuable Dark Arts stuff. But 
luckily, we’ve got our own secret chamber under the 
drawing-room floor — ” 

“Ho!” said Ron. 

Malfoy looked at him. So did Harry. Ron blushed. 

Even his hair was turning red. His nose was also 
slowly lengthening — their hour was up, Ron was 
turning back into himself, and from the look of horror 
he was suddenly giving Harry, he must be, too. 

They both jumped to their feet. 

“Medicine for my stomach,” Ron grunted, and without 
further ado they sprinted the length of the Slytherin 
common room, hurled themselves at the stone wall, 
and dashed up the passage, hoping against hope that 

Page | 250 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Malfoy hadn’t noticed anything. Harry could feel his 
feet slipping around in Goyle’s huge shoes and had to 
hoist up his robes as he shrank; they crashed up the 
steps into the dark entrance hall, which was full of a 
muffled pounding coming from the closet where 
they’d locked Crabbe and Goyle. Leaving their shoes 
outside the closet door, they sprinted in their socks 
up the marble staircase toward Moaning Myrtle’s 
bathroom. 

“Well, it wasn’t a complete waste of time,” Ron 
panted, closing the bathroom door behind them. “I 
know we still haven’t found out who’s doing the 
attacks, but I’m going to write to Dad tomorrow and 
tell him to check under the Malfoys’ drawing room.” 

Harry checked his face in the cracked mirror. He was 
back to normal. He put his glasses on as Ron 
hammered on the door of Hermione’s stall. 

“Hermione, come out, we’ve got loads to tell you — ” 

“Go away!” Hermione squeaked. 

Harry and Ron looked at each other. 

“What’s the matter?” said Ron. “You must be back to 
normal by now, we are — ” 

But Moaning Myrtle glided suddenly through the stall 
door. Harry had never seen her looking so happy. 

“Ooooooh, wait till you see,” she said. “It’s awful — ” 

They heard the lock slide back and Hermione 
emerged, sobbing, her robes pulled up over her head. 

“What’s up?” said Ron uncertainly. “Have you still got 
Millicent’s nose or something?” 

Page | 251 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione let her robes fall and Ron backed into the 
sink. 

Her face was covered in black fur. Her eyes had 
turned yellow and there were long, pointed ears 
poking through her hair. 

“It was a c-cat hair!” she howled. “M-Millicent 
Bulstrode m-must have a cat! And the p-potion isn’t 
supposed to be used for animal transformations!” 

“Uh-oh,” said Ron. 

“You’ll be teased something dreadful,” said Myrtle 
happily. 

“It’s okay, Hermione,” said Harry quickly. “We’ll take 
you up to the hospital wing. Madam Pomfrey never 
asks too many questions. ...” 

It took a long time to persuade Hermione to leave the 
bathroom. Moaning Myrtle sped them on their way 
with a hearty guffaw. “Wait till everyone finds out 
you’ve got a tail\” 



Page | 252 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 





* V 




THE VERY SECRET DIARY 

Hermione remained in the hospital wing for several 
weeks. There was a flurry of rumor about her 
disappearance when the rest of the school arrived 
back from their Christmas holidays, because of 
course everyone thought that she had been attacked. 
So many students filed past the hospital wing trying 
to catch a glimpse of her that Madam Pomfrey took 
out her curtains again and placed them around 
Hermione’s bed, to spare her the shame of being seen 
with a furry face. 

Harry and Ron went to visit her every evening. When 
the new term started, they brought her each day’s 
homework. 

“If I’d sprouted whiskers, I’d take a break from work,” 
said Ron, tipping a stack of books onto Hermione’s 
bedside table one evening. 

“Don’t be silly, Ron, I’ve got to keep up,” said 
Hermione briskly. Her spirits were greatly improved 
by the fact that all the hair had gone from her face 

Page | 253 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 



and her eyes were turning slowly back to brown. “I 
don’t suppose you’ve got any new leads?” she added 
in a whisper, so that Madam Pomfrey couldn’t hear 
her. 

“Nothing,” said Harry gloomily. 

“I was so sure it was Malfoy,” said Ron, for about the 
hundredth time. 

“What’s that?” asked Harry, pointing to something 
gold sticking out from under Hermione’s pillow. 

“Just a get well card,” said Hermione hastily, trying to 
poke it out of sight, but Ron was too quick for her. He 
pulled it out, flicked it open, and read aloud: 

“To Miss Granger, wishing you a speedy recovery, from 
your concerned teacher, Professor Gilderoy Lockhart, 
Order of Merlin, Third Class, Honorary Member of the 
Dark Force Defense League, and five-time winner of 
Witch Weekly’s Most-Charming-Smile Award.” 

Ron looked up at Hermione, disgusted. 

“You sleep with this under your pillow?” 

But Hermione was spared answering by Madam 
Pomfrey sweeping over with her evening dose of 
medicine. 

“Is Lockhart the smarmiest bloke you’ve ever met, or 
what?” Ron said to Harry as they left the infirmary 
and started up the stairs toward Gryffindor Tower. 
Snape had given them so much homework, Harry 
thought he was likely to be in the sixth year before he 
finished it. Ron was just saying he wished he had 
asked Hermione how many rat tails you were 
supposed to add to a Hair-Raising Potion when an 
Page | 254 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




angry outburst from the floor above reached their 
ears. 

“That’s Filch,” Harry muttered as they hurried up the 
stairs and paused, out of sight, listening hard. 

“You don’t think someone else’s been attacked?” said 
Ron tensely. 

They stood still, their heads inclined toward Filch’s 
voice, which sounded quite hysterical. 

“ — even more work for me! Mopping all night, like I 
haven’t got enough to do! No, this is the final straw, I’m 
going to Dumbledore — ” 

His footsteps receded along the out-of-sight corridor 
and they heard a distant door slam. 

They poked their heads around the corner. Filch had 
clearly been manning his usual lookout post: They 
were once again on the spot where Mrs. Norris had 
been attacked. They saw at a glance what Filch had 
been shouting about. A great flood of water stretched 
over half the corridor, and it looked as though it was 
still seeping from under the door of Moaning Myrtle’s 
bathroom. Now that Filch had stopped shouting, they 
could hear Myrtle’s wails echoing off the bathroom 
walls. 

“Now what’s up with her?” said Ron. 

“Let’s go and see,” said Harry, and holding their robes 
over their ankles they stepped through the great wash 
of water to the door bearing its OUT OF ORDER sign, 
ignored it as always, and entered. 

Moaning Myrtle was crying, if possible, louder and 
harder than ever before. She seemed to be hiding 

Page | 255 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




down her usual toilet. It was dark in the bathroom 
because the candles had been extinguished in the 
great rush of water that had left both walls and floor 
soaking wet. 

“What’s up, Myrtle?” said Harry. 

“Who’s that?” glugged Myrtle miserably. “Come to 
throw something else at me?” 

Harry waded across to her stall and said, “Why would 
I throw something at you?” 

“Don’t ask me,” Myrtle shouted, emerging with a wave 
of yet more water, which splashed onto the already 
sopping floor. “Here I am, minding my own business, 
and someone thinks it’s funny to throw a book at me. 



“But it can’t hurt you if someone throws something at 
you,” said Harry, reasonably. “I mean, it’d just go 
right through you, wouldn’t it?” 

He had said the wrong thing. Myrtle puffed herself up 
and shrieked, “Let’s all throw books at Myrtle, 
because she can’t feel it! Ten points if you can get it 
through her stomach! Fifty points if it goes through 
her head! Well, ha, ha, ha! What a lovely game, I don’t 
think!” 

“Who threw it at you, anyway?” asked Harry. 

“I don’t know. ... I was just sitting in the U-bend, 
thinking about death, and it fell right through the top 
of my head,” said Myrtle, glaring at them. “It’s over 
there, it got washed out. ...” 

Harry and Ron looked under the sink where Myrtle 
was pointing. A small, thin book lay there. It had a 

Page | 256 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




shabby black cover and was as wet as everything else 
in the bathroom. Harry stepped forward to pick it up, 
but Ron suddenly flung out an arm to hold him back. 

“What?” said Harry. 

“Are you cra2y?” said Ron. “It could be dangerous.” 

“ Dangerous ?” said Harry, laughing. “Come off it, how 
could it be dangerous?” 

“You’d be surprised,” said Ron, who was looking 
apprehensively at the book. “Some of the books the 
Ministry’s confiscated — Dad’s told me — there was 
one that burned your eyes out. And everyone who 
read Sonnets of a Sorcerer spoke in limericks for the 
rest of their lives. And some old witch in Bath had a 
book that you could never stop reading ! You just had 
to wander around with your nose in it, trying to do 
everything one-handed. And — ” 

“All right, I’ve got the point,” said Harry. 

The little book lay on the floor, nondescript and 
soggy. 

“Well, we won’t find out unless we look at it,” he said, 
and he ducked around Ron and picked it up off the 
floor. 

Harry saw at once that it was a diary, and the faded 
year on the cover told him it was fifty years old. He 
opened it eagerly. On the first page he could just 
make out the name “T. M. Riddle” in smudged ink. 

“Hang on,” said Ron, who had approached cautiously 
and was looking over Harry’s shoulder. “I know that 
name. ... T. M. Riddle got an award for special 
services to the school fifty years ago.” 

Page | 257 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“How on earth d’you know that?” said Harry in 
amazement. 

“Because Filch made me polish his shield about fifty 
times in detention,” said Ron resentfully. “That was 
the one I burped slugs all over. If you’d wiped slime 
off a name for an hour, you’d remember it, too.” 

Harry peeled the wet pages apart. They were 
completely blank. There wasn’t the faintest trace of 
writing on any of them, not even Auntie Mabel’s 
birthday, or dentist, half-past three. 

“He never wrote in it,” said Harry, disappointed. 

“I wonder why someone wanted to flush it away?” said 
Ron curiously. 

Harry turned to the back cover of the book and saw 
the printed name of a variety store on Vauxhall Road, 
London. 

“He must’ve been Muggle-born,” said Harry 
thoughtfully. “To have bought a diary from Vauxhall 
Road. ...” 

“Well, it’s not much use to you,” said Ron. He 
dropped his voice. “Fifty points if you can get it 
through Myrtle’s nose.” 

Harry, however, pocketed it. 

Hermione left the hospital wing, de-whiskered, tail- 
less, and fur-free, at the beginning of February. On 
her first evening back in Gryffindor Tower, Harry 
showed her T. M. Riddle’s diary and told her the story 
of how they had found it. 



Page | 258 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Oooh, it might have hidden powers,” said Hermione 
enthusiastically, taking the diary and looking at it 
closely. 

“If it has, it’s hiding them very well,” said Ron. “Maybe 
it’s shy. I don’t know why you don’t chuck it, Harry.” 

“I wish I knew why someone did try to chuck it,” said 
Harry. “I wouldn’t mind knowing how Riddle got an 
award for special services to Hogwarts either.” 

“Could’ve been anything,” said Ron. “Maybe he got 
thirty O.W.L.s or saved a teacher from the giant 
squid. Maybe he murdered Myrtle; that would’ve done 
everyone a favor. ...” 

But Harry could tell from the arrested look on 
Hermione ’s face that she was thinking what he was 
thinking. 

“What?” said Ron, looking from one to the other. 

“Well, the Chamber of Secrets was opened fifty years 
ago, wasn’t it?” he said. “That’s what Malfoy said.” 

“Yeah ...” said Ron slowly. 

“And this diary is fifty years old,” said Hermione, 
tapping it excitedly. 

“So?” 

“Oh, Ron, wake up,” snapped Hermione. “We know 
the person who opened the Chamber last time was 
expelled fifty years ago. We know T. M. Riddle got an 
award for special services to the school fifty years 
ago. Well, what if Riddle got his special award for 
catching the Heir of Slytherin? His diary would 
probably tell us everything — where the Chamber is, 
Page | 259 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




and how to open it, and what sort of creature lives in 
it — the person who’s behind the attacks this time 
wouldn’t want that lying around, would they?” 

“That’s a brilliant theory, Hermione,” said Ron, “with 
just one tiny little flaw. There’s nothing written in his 
diary.” 

But Hermione was pulling her wand out of her bag. 

“It might be invisible ink!” she whispered. 

She tapped the diary three times and said, 
“Aparecium\” 

Nothing happened. Undaunted, Hermione shoved her 
hand back into her bag and pulled out what appeared 
to be a bright red eraser. 

“It’s a Revealer, I got it in Diagon Alley,” she said. 

She rubbed hard on January first. Nothing happened. 

“I’m telling you, there’s nothing to find in there,” said 
Ron. “Riddle just got a diary for Christmas and 
couldn’t be bothered filling it in.” 

Harry couldn’t explain, even to himself, why he didn’t 
just throw Riddle’s diary away. The fact was that even 
though he knew the diary was blank, he kept 
absentmindedly picking it up and turning the pages, 
as though it were a story he wanted to finish. And 
while Harry was sure he had never heard the name T. 
M. Riddle before, it still seemed to mean something to 
him, almost as though Riddle was a friend he’d had 
when he was very small, and had half-forgotten. But 
this was absurd. He’d never had friends before 
Hogwarts, Dudley had made sure of that. 



Page | 260 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Nevertheless, Harry was determined to find out more 
about Riddle, so next day at break, he headed for the 
trophy room to examine Riddle’s special award, 
accompanied by an interested Hermione and a 
thoroughly unconvinced Ron, who told them he’d 
seen enough of the trophy room to last him a lifetime. 

Riddle’s burnished gold shield was tucked away in a 
corner cabinet. It didn’t carry details of why it had 
been given to him (“Good thing, too, or it’d be even 
bigger and I’d still be polishing it,” said Ron). 

However, they did find Riddle’s name on an old Medal 
for Magical Merit, and on a list of old Head Boys. 

“He sounds like Percy,” said Ron, wrinkling his nose 
in disgust. “Prefect, Head Boy ... probably top of every 
class — ” 

“You say that like it’s a bad thing,” said Hermione in a 
slightly hurt voice. 

The sun had now begun to shine weakly on Hogwarts 
again. Inside the castle, the mood had grown more 
hopeful. There had been no more attacks since those 
on Justin and Nearly Headless Nick, and Madam 
Pomfrey was pleased to report that the Mandrakes 
were becoming moody and secretive, meaning that 
they were fast leaving childhood. 

“The moment their acne clears up, they’ll be ready for 
repotting again,” Harry heard her telling Filch kindly 
one afternoon. “And after that, it won’t be long until 
we’re cutting them up and stewing them. You’ll have 
Mrs. Norris back in no time.” 

Perhaps the Heir of Slytherin had lost his or her 
nerve, thought Harry. It must be getting riskier and 
riskier to open the Chamber of Secrets, with the 
school so alert and suspicious. Perhaps the monster, 

Page | 261 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




whatever it was, was even now settling itself down to 
hibernate for another fifty years. ... 



Ernie Macmillan of Hufflepuff didn’t take this cheerful 
view. He was still convinced that Harry was the guilty 
one, that he had “given himself away” at the Dueling 
Club. Peeves wasn’t helping matters; he kept popping 
up in the crowded corridors singing “Oh, Potter, you 
rotter ...” now with a dance routine to match. 

Gilderoy Lockhart seemed to think he himself had 
made the attacks stop. Harry overheard him telling 
Professor McGonagall so while the Gryffindors were 
lining up for Transfiguration. 

“I don’t think there’ll be any more trouble, Minerva,” 
he said, tapping his nose knowingly and winking. “I 
think the Chamber has been locked for good this 
time. The culprit must have known it was only a 
matter of time before I caught him. Rather sensible to 
stop now, before I came down hard on him. 

“You know, what the school needs now is a morale- 
booster. Wash away the memories of last term! I won’t 
say any more just now, but I think I know just the 
thing. ...” 

He tapped his nose again and strode off. 

Lockhart’s idea of a morale-booster became clear at 
breakfast time on February fourteenth. Harry hadn’t 
had much sleep because of a late-running Quidditch 
practice the night before, and he hurried down to the 
Great Hall, slightly late. He thought, for a moment, 
that he’d walked through the wrong doors. 

The walls were all covered with large, lurid pink 
flowers. Worse still, heart-shaped confetti was falling 
from the pale blue ceiling. Harry went over to the 

Page | 262 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Gryffindor table, where Ron was sitting looking 
sickened, and Hermione seemed to have been 
overcome with giggles. 

“What’s going on?” Harry asked them, sitting down 
and wiping confetti off his bacon. 

Ron pointed to the teachers’ table, apparently too 
disgusted to speak. Lockhart, wearing lurid pink 
robes to match the decorations, was waving for 
silence. The teachers on either side of him were 
looking stony-faced. From where he sat, Harry could 
see a muscle going in Professor McGonagall’s cheek. 
Snape looked as though someone had just fed him a 
large beaker of Skele-Gro. 

“Happy Valentine’s Day!” Lockhart shouted. “And may 
I thank the forty-six people who have so far sent me 
cards! Yes, I have taken the liberty of arranging this 
little surprise for you all — and it doesn’t end here!” 

Lockhart clapped his hands and through the doors to 
the entrance hall marched a dozen surly-looking 
dwarfs. Not just any dwarfs, however. Lockhart had 
them all wearing golden wings and carrying harps. 

“My friendly, card-carrying cupids!” beamed Lockhart. 
“They will be roving around the school today 
delivering your valentines! And the fun doesn’t stop 
here! I’m sure my colleagues will want to enter into 
the spirit of the occasion! Why not ask Professor 
Snape to show you how to whip up a Love Potion! And 
while you’re at it, Professor Flitwick knows more 
about Entrancing Enchantments than any wizard I’ve 
ever met, the sly old dog!” 

Professor Flitwick buried his face in his hands. Snape 
was looking as though the first person to ask him for 
a Love Potion would be force-fed poison. 

Page | 263 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Please, Hermione, tell me you weren’t one of the 
forty-six,” said Ron as they left the Great Hall for their 
first lesson. Hermione suddenly became very 
interested in searching her bag for her schedule and 
didn’t answer. 

All day long, the dwarfs kept barging into their 
classes to deliver valentines, to the annoyance of the 
teachers, and late that afternoon as the Gryffindors 
were walking upstairs for Charms, one of the dwarfs 
caught up with Harry. 

“Oy, you! ’Arry Potter!” shouted a particularly grim- 
looking dwarf, elbowing people out of the way to get to 
Harry. 

Hot all over at the thought of being given a valentine 
in front of a line of first years, which happened to 
include Ginny Weasley, Harry tried to escape. The 
dwarf, however, cut his way through the crowd by 
kicking people’s shins, and reached him before he’d 
gone two paces. 

“I’ve got a musical message to deliver to ’Arry Potter in 
person,” he said, twanging his harp in a threatening 
sort of way. 

“Not here,” Harry hissed, trying to escape. 

“Stay stilll” grunted the dwarf, grabbing hold of 
Harry’s bag and pulling him back. 

“Let me go!” Harry snarled, tugging. 

With a loud ripping noise, his bag split in two. His 
books, wand, parchment, and quill spilled onto the 
floor and his ink bottle smashed over everything. 



Page | 264 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Harry scrambled around, trying to pick it all up 
before the dwarf started singing, causing something of 
a holdup in the corridor. 

“What’s going on here?” came the cold, drawling voice 
of Draco Malfoy. Harry started stuffing everything 
feverishly into his ripped bag, desperate to get away 
before Malfoy could hear his musical valentine. 

“What’s all this commotion?” said another familiar 
voice as Percy Weasley arrived. 

Losing his head, Harry tried to make a run for it, but 
the dwarf seized him around the knees and brought 
him crashing to the floor. 

“Right,” he said, sitting on Harry’s ankles. “Here is 
your singing valentine: 

His eyes are as green as a fresh pickled toad, 

His hair is as dark as a blackboard. 

I wish he was mine, he’s really divine, 

The hero who conquered the Dark Lord.” 

Harry would have given all the gold in Gringotts to 
evaporate on the spot. Trying valiantly to laugh along 
with everyone else, he got up, his feet numb from the 
weight of the dwarf, as Percy Weasley did his best to 
disperse the crowd, some of whom were crying with 
mirth. 

“Off you go, off you go, the bell rang five minutes ago, 
off to class, now,” he said, shooing some of the 
younger students away. “And you, Malfoy — ” 



Page | 265 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Harry, glancing over, saw Malfoy stoop and snatch up 
something. Leering, he showed it to Crabbe and 
Goyle, and Harry realized that he’d got Riddle’s diary. 

“Give that back,” said Harry quietly. 

“Wonder what Potter’s written in this?” said Malfoy, 
who obviously hadn’t noticed the year on the cover 
and thought he had Harry’s own diary. A hush fell 
over the onlookers. Ginny was staring from the diary 
to Harry, looking terrified. 

“Hand it over, Malfoy,” said Percy sternly. 

“When I’ve had a look,” said Malfoy, waving the diary 
tauntingly at Harry. 

Percy said, “As a school prefect — ” but Harry had lost 
his temper. He pulled out his wand and shouted, 

“ ExpelliarmusV’ and just as Snape had disarmed 
Lockhart, so Malfoy found the diary shooting out of 
his hand into the air. Ron, grinning broadly, caught 
it. 

“Harry!” said Percy loudly. “No magic in the corridors. 
I’ll have to report this, you know!” 

But Harry didn’t care, he was one-up on Malfoy, and 
that was worth five points from Gryffindor any day. 
Malfoy was looking furious, and as Ginny passed him 
to enter her classroom, he yelled spitefully after her, 

“I don’t think Potter liked your valentine much!” 

Ginny covered her face with her hands and ran into 
class. Snarling, Ron pulled out his wand, too, but 
Harry pulled him away. Ron didn’t need to spend the 
whole of Charms belching slugs. 



Page | 266 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




It wasn’t until they had reached Professor Flitwick’s 
class that Harry noticed something rather odd about 
Riddle’s diary. All his other books were drenched in 
scarlet ink. The diary, however, was as clean as it had 
been before the ink bottle had smashed all over it. He 
tried to point this out to Ron, but Ron was having 
trouble with his wand again; large purple bubbles 
were blossoming out of the end, and he wasn’t much 
interested in anything else. 



Jc Jc Jc 



Harry went to bed before anyone else in his 
dormitory that night. This was partly because he 
didn’t think he could stand Fred and George singing, 
“His eyes are as green as a fresh pickled toad” one 
more time, and partly because he wanted to examine 
Riddle’s diary again, and knew that Ron thought he 
was wasting his time. 

Harry sat on his four-poster and flicked through the 
blank pages, not one of which had a trace of scarlet 
ink on it. Then he pulled a new bottle out of his 
bedside cabinet, dipped his quill into it, and dropped 
a blot onto the first page of the diary. 

The ink shone brightly on the paper for a second and 
then, as though it was being sucked into the page, 
vanished. Excited, Harry loaded up his quill a second 
time and wrote, “My name is Harry Potter.” 

The words shone momentarily on the page and they, 
too, sank without trace. Then, at last, something 
happened. 

Oozing back out of the page, in his very own ink, 
came words Harry had never written. 



Page | 267 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Hello, Harry Potter. My name is Tom Riddle. How did 
you come by my diary?” 

These words, too, faded away, but not before Harry 
had started to scribble back. 

“Someone tried to flush it down a toilet.” 

He waited eagerly for Riddle’s reply. 

“Lucky that I recorded my memories in some more 
lasting way than ink. But I always knew that there 
would be those who would not want this diary read.” 

“What do you mean?” Harry scrawled, blotting the 
page in his excitement. 

“I mean that this diary holds memories of terrible 
things. Things that were covered up. Things that 
happened at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and 
Wizardry.” 

“That’s where I am now,” Harry wrote quickly. “I’m at 
Hogwarts, and horrible stuff’s been happening. Do 
you know anything about the Chamber of Secrets?” 

His heart was hammering. Riddle’s reply came 
quickly, his writing becoming untidier, as though he 
was hurrying to tell all he knew. 

“Of course I know about the Chamber of Secrets. In my 
day, they told us it was a legend, that it did not exist. 
But this was a lie. In my fifth year, the Chamber was 
opened and the monster attacked several students, 
finally killing one. I caught the person who’d opened 
the Chamber and he was expelled. But the 
headmaster, Professor Dippet, ashamed that such a 
thing had happened at Hogwarts, forbade me to tell 
the truth. A story was given out that the girl had died 
Page | 268 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




in a freak accident They gave me a nice, shiny, 
engraved trophy for my trouble and warned me to keep 
my mouth shut But I knew it could happen again. The 
monster lived on, and the one who had the power to 
release it was not imprisoned.” 

Harry nearly upset his ink bottle in his hurry to write 
back. 

“It’s happening again now. There have been three 
attacks and no one seems to know who’s behind 
them. Who was it last time?” 

“ I can show you, if you like,” came Riddle’s reply. “You 
don’t have to take my word for it. I can take you inside 
my memory of the night when I caught him.” 

Harry hesitated, his quill suspended over the diary. 
What did Riddle mean? How could he be taken inside 
somebody else’s memory? He glanced nervously at the 
door to the dormitory, which was growing dark. When 
he looked back at the diary, he saw fresh words 
forming. 

“Let me show you.” 

Harry paused for a fraction of a second and then 
wrote two letters. 

“OK.” 

The pages of the diary began to blow as though 
caught in a high wind, stopping halfway through the 
month of June. Mouth hanging open, Harry saw that 
the little square for June thirteenth seemed to have 
turned into a minuscule television screen. His hands 
trembling slightly, he raised the book to press his eye 
against the little window, and before he knew what 
was happening, he was tilting forward; the window 
Page | 269 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




was widening, he felt his body leave his bed, and he 
was pitched headfirst through the opening in the 
page, into a whirl of color and shadow. 

He felt his feet hit solid ground, and stood, shaking, 
as the blurred shapes around him came suddenly 
into focus. 

He knew immediately where he was. This circular 
room with the sleeping portraits was Dumbledore’s 
office — but it wasn’t Dumbledore who was sitting 
behind the desk. A wizened, frail-looking wizard, bald 
except for a few wisps of white hair, was reading a 
letter by candlelight. Harry had never seen this man 
before. 

“I’m sorry,” he said shakily. “I didn’t mean to butt in 



But the wizard didn’t look up. He continued to read, 
frowning slightly. Harry drew nearer to his desk and 
stammered, “Er — I’ll just go, shall I?” 

Still the wizard ignored him. He didn’t seem even to 
have heard him. Thinking that the wizard might be 
deaf, Harry raised his voice. 

“Sorry I disturbed you. I’ll go now,” he half-shouted. 

The wizard folded up the letter with a sigh, stood up, 
walked past Harry without glancing at him, and went 
to draw the curtains at his window. 

The sky outside the window was ruby-red; it seemed 
to be sunset. The wizard went back to the desk, sat 
down, and twiddled his thumbs, watching the door. 

Harry looked around the office. No Fawkes the 
phoenix — no whirring silver contraptions. This was 

Page | 270 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Hogwarts as Riddle had known it, meaning that this 
unknown wizard was headmaster, not Dumbledore, 
and he, Harry, was little more than a phantom, 
completely invisible to the people of fifty years ago. 

There was a knock on the office door. 

“Enter,” said the old wizard in a feeble voice. 

A boy of about sixteen entered, taking off his pointed 
hat. A silver prefect’s badge was glinting on his chest. 
He was much taller than Harry, but he, too, had jet- 
black hair. 

“Ah, Riddle,” said the headmaster. 

“You wanted to see me, Professor Dippet?” said 
Riddle. He looked nervous. 

“Sit down,” said Dippet. “I’ve just been reading the 
letter you sent me.” 

“Oh,” said Riddle. He sat down, gripping his hands 
together very tightly. 

“My dear boy,” said Dippet kindly, “I cannot possibly 
let you stay at school over the summer. Surely you 
want to go home for the holidays?” 

“No,” said Riddle at once. “I’d much rather stay at 
Hogwarts than go back to that — to that — ” 

“You live in a Muggle orphanage during the holidays, I 
believe?” said Dippet curiously. 

“Yes, sir,” said Riddle, reddening slightly. 

“You are Muggle-born?” 



Page | 271 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Half-blood, sir,” said Riddle. “Muggle father, witch 
mother.” 

“And are both your parents — ?” 

“My mother died just after I was born, sir. They told 
me at the orphanage she lived just long enough to 
name me — Tom after my father, Marvolo after my 
grandfather.” 

Dippet clucked his tongue sympathetically. 

“The thing is, Tom,” he sighed, “special arrangements 
might have been made for you, but in the current 
circumstances. ...” 

“You mean all these attacks, sir?” said Riddle, and 
Harry’s heart leapt, and he moved closer, scared of 
missing anything. 

“Precisely,” said the headmaster. “My dear boy, you 
must see how foolish it would be of me to allow you to 
remain at the castle when term ends. Particularly in 
light of the recent tragedy . . . the death of that poor 
little girl. ... You will be safer by far at your 
orphanage. As a matter of fact, the Ministry of Magic 
is even now talking about closing the school. We are 
no nearer locating the — er — source of all this 
unpleasantness. ...” 

Riddle’s eyes had widened. 

“Sir — if the person was caught — if it all stopped — ” 

“What do you mean?” said Dippet with a squeak in 
his voice, sitting up in his chair. “Riddle, do you mean 
you know something about these attacks?” 

“No, sir,” said Riddle quickly. 

Page | 272 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




But Harry was sure it was the same sort of “no” that 
he himself had given Dumbledore. 

Dippet sank back, looking faintly disappointed. 

“You may go, Tom. ...” 

Riddle slid off his chair and slouched out of the room. 
Harry followed him. 

Down the moving spiral staircase they went, emerging 
next to the gargoyle in the darkening corridor. Riddle 
stopped, and so did Harry, watching him. Harry could 
tell that Riddle was doing some serious thinking. He 
was biting his lip, his forehead furrowed. 

Then, as though he had suddenly reached a decision, 
he hurried off, Harry gliding noiselessly behind him. 
They didn’t see another person until they reached the 
entrance hall, when a tall wizard with long, sweeping 
auburn hair and a beard called to Riddle from the 
marble staircase. 

“What are you doing, wandering around this late, 
Tom?” 

Harry gaped at the wizard. He was none other than a 
fifty-year-younger Dumbledore. 

“I had to see the headmaster, sir,” said Riddle. 

“Well, hurry off to bed,” said Dumbledore, giving 
Riddle exactly the kind of penetrating stare Harry 
knew so well. “Best not to roam the corridors these 
days. Not since ...” 

He sighed heavily, bade Riddle good night, and strode 
off. Riddle watched him walk out of sight and then, 



Page | 273 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




moving quickly, headed straight down the stone steps 
to the dungeons, with Harry in hot pursuit. 

But to Harry’s disappointment, Riddle led him not 
into a hidden passageway or a secret tunnel but to 
the very dungeon in which Harry had Potions with 
Snape. The torches hadn’t been lit, and when Riddle 
pushed the door almost closed, Harry could only just 
see him, standing stock-still by the door, watching 
the passage outside. 

It felt to Harry that they were there for at least an 
hour. All he could see was the figure of Riddle at the 
door, staring through the crack, waiting like a statue. 
And just when Harry had stopped feeling expectant 
and tense and started wishing he could return to the 
present, he heard something move beyond the door. 

Someone was creeping along the passage. He heard 
whoever it was pass the dungeon where he and Riddle 
were hidden. Riddle, quiet as a shadow, edged 
through the door and followed, Harry tiptoeing behind 
him, forgetting that he couldn’t be heard. 

For perhaps five minutes they followed the footsteps, 
until Riddle stopped suddenly, his head inclined in 
the direction of new noises. Harry heard a door creak 
open, and then someone speaking in a hoarse 
whisper. 

“C’mon ... gotta get yeh outta here. ... C’mon now ... 
in the box ...” 

There was something familiar about that voice. ... 

Riddle suddenly jumped around the corner. Harry 
stepped out behind him. He could see the dark 
outline of a huge boy who was crouching in front of 
an open door, a very large box next to it. 

Page | 274 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“ ’Evening, Rubeus,” said Riddle sharply. 

The boy slammed the door shut and stood up. 

“What yer doin’ down here, Tom?” 

Riddle stepped closer. 

“It’s all over,” he said. “I’m going to have to turn you 
in, Rubeus. They’re talking about closing Hogwarts if 
the attacks don’t stop.” 

“What d’yeh — ” 

“I don’t think you meant to kill anyone. But monsters 
don’t make good pets. I suppose you just let it out for 
exercise and — ” 

“It never killed no one!” said the large boy, backing 
against the closed door. From behind him, Harry 
could hear a funny rustling and clicking. 

“Come on, Rubeus,” said Riddle, moving yet closer. 
“The dead girl’s parents will be here tomorrow. The 
least Hogwarts can do is make sure that the thing 
that killed their daughter is slaughtered. ...” 

“It wasn’t him!” roared the boy, his voice echoing in 
the dark passage. “He wouldn’! He never!” 

“Stand aside,” said Riddle, drawing out his wand. 

His spell lit the corridor with a sudden flaming light. 
The door behind the large boy flew open with such 
force it knocked him into the wall opposite. And out of 
it came something that made Harry let out a long, 
piercing scream unheard by anyone — 



Page | 275 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




A vast, low-slung, hairy body and a tangle of black 
legs; a gleam of many eyes and a pair of razor-sharp 
pincers — Riddle raised his wand again, but he was 
too late. The thing bowled him over as it scuttled 
away, tearing up the corridor and out of sight. Riddle 
scrambled to his feet, looking after it; he raised his 
wand, but the huge boy leapt on him, seized his 
wand, and threw him back down, yelling, 
“NOOOOOOO!” 

The scene whirled, the darkness became complete; 
Harry felt himself falling and, with a crash, he landed 
spread-eagled on his four-poster in the Gryffindor 
dormitory, Riddle’s diary lying open on his stomach. 

Before he had had time to regain his breath, the 
dormitory door opened and Ron came in. 

“There you are,” he said. 

Harry sat up. He was sweating and shaking. 

“What’s up?” said Ron, looking at him with concern. 

“It was Hagrid, Ron. Hagrid opened the Chamber of 
Secrets fifty years ago.” 



Page | 276 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 






CORNELIUS FUDGE 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione had always known that 
Hagrid had an unfortunate liking for large and 
monstrous creatures. During their first year at 
Hogwarts he had tried to raise a dragon in his little 
wooden house, and it would be a long time before 
they forgot the giant, three-headed dog he’d 
christened “Fluffy.” And if, as a boy, Hagrid had heard 
that a monster was hidden somewhere in the castle, 
Harry was sure he’d have gone to any lengths for a 
glimpse of it. He’d probably thought it was a shame 
that the monster had been cooped up so long, and 
thought it deserved the chance to stretch its many 
legs; Harry could just imagine the thirteen-year-old 
Hagrid trying to fit a leash and collar on it. But he 
was equally certain that Hagrid would never have 
meant to kill anybody. 

Harry half wished he hadn’t found out how to work 
Riddle’s diary. Again and again Ron and Hermione 
made him recount what he’d seen, until he was 
heartily sick of telling them and sick of the long, 
circular conversations that followed. 

Page | 277 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 



“Riddle might have got the wrong person,” said 
Hermione. “Maybe it was some other monster that 
was attacking people. ...” 

“How many monsters d’you think this place can 
hold?” Ron asked dully. 

“We always knew Hagrid had been expelled,” said 
Harry miserably. “And the attacks must’ve stopped 
after Hagrid was kicked out. Otherwise, Riddle 
wouldn’t have got his award.” 

Ron tried a different tack. 

“Riddle does sound like Percy — who asked him to 
squeal on Hagrid, anyway?” 

“But the monster had killed someone, Ron,” said 
Hermione. 

“And Riddle was going to go back to some Muggle 
orphanage if they closed Hogwarts,” said Harry. “I 
don’t blame him for wanting to stay here. ...” 

“You met Hagrid down Knockturn Alley, didn’t you, 
Harry?” 

“He was buying a Flesh-Eating Slug Repellent,” said 
Harry quickly. 

The three of them fell silent. After a long pause, 
Hermione voiced the knottiest question of all in a 
hesitant voice. 

“Do you think we should go and ask Hagrid about it 
all?” 



Page | 278 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“That’d be a cheerful visit,” said Ron. “ ‘Hello, Hagrid. 
Tell us, have you been setting anything mad and 
hairy loose in the castle lately?’ ” 

In the end, they decided that they would not say 
anything to Hagrid unless there was another attack, 
and as more and more days went by with no whisper 
from the disembodied voice, they became hopeful that 
they would never need to talk to him about why he 
had been expelled. It was now nearly four months 
since Justin and Nearly Headless Nick had been 
Petrified, and nearly everybody seemed to think that 
the attacker, whoever it was, had retired for good. 
Peeves had finally got bored of his “Oh, Potter, you 
rotter” song, Ernie Macmillan asked Harry quite 
politely to pass a bucket of leaping toadstools in 
Herbology one day, and in March several of the 
Mandrakes threw a loud and raucous party in 
greenhouse three. This made Professor Sprout very 
happy. 

“The moment they start trying to move into each 
other’s pots, we’ll know they’re fully mature,” she told 
Harry. “Then we’ll be able to revive those poor people 
in the hospital wing.” 

The second years were given something new to think 
about during their Easter holidays. The time had 
come to choose their subjects for the third year, a 
matter that Hermione, at least, took very seriously. 

“It could affect our whole future,” she told Harry and 
Ron as they pored over lists of new subjects, marking 
them with checks. 

“I just want to give up Potions,” said Harry. 



Page | 279 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“We can’t,” said Ron gloomily. “We keep all our old 
subjects, or I’d’ve ditched Defense Against the Dark 
Arts.” 

“But that’s very important!” said Hermione, shocked. 

“Not the way Lockhart teaches it,” said Ron. “I haven’t 
learned anything from him except not to set pixies 
loose.” 

Neville Longbottom had been sent letters from all the 
witches and wizards in his family, all giving him 
different advice on what to choose. Confused and 
worried, he sat reading the subject lists with his 
tongue poking out, asking people whether they 
thought Arithmancy sounded more difficult than the 
study of Ancient Runes. Dean Thomas, who, like 
Harry, had grown up with Muggles, ended up closing 
his eyes and jabbing his wand at the list, then picking 
the subjects it landed on. Hermione took nobody’s 
advice but signed up for everything. 

Harry smiled grimly to himself at the thought of what 
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia would say if he tried 
to discuss his career in wizardry with them. Not that 
he didn’t get any guidance: Percy Weasley was eager 
to share his experience. 

“Depends where you want to go, Harry,” he said. “It’s 
never too early to think about the future, so I’d 
recommend Divination. People say Muggle Studies is 
a soft option, but I personally think wizards should 
have a thorough understanding of the non-magical 
community, particularly if they’re thinking of working 
in close contact with them — look at my father, he 
has to deal with Muggle business all the time. My 
brother Charlie was always more of an outdoor type, 
so he went for Care of Magical Creatures. Play to your 
strengths, Harry.” 

Page | 280 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




But the only thing Harry felt he was really good at 
was Quidditch. In the end, he chose the same new 
subjects as Ron, feeling that if he was lousy at them, 
at least he’d have someone friendly to help him. 

Gryffindor’s next Quidditch match would be against 
Hufflepuff. Wood was insisting on team practices 
every night after dinner, so that Harry barely had 
time for anything but Quidditch and homework. 
However, the training sessions were getting better, or 
at least drier, and the evening before Saturday’s 
match he went up to his dormitory to drop off his 
broomstick feeling Gryffindor’s chances for the 
Quidditch Cup had never been better. 

But his cheerful mood didn’t last long. At the top of 
the stairs to the dormitory, he met Neville 
Longbottom, who was looking frantic. 

“Harry — I don’t know who did it — I just found — ” 

Watching Harry fearfully, Neville pushed open the 
door. 

The contents of Harry’s trunk had been thrown 
everywhere. His cloak lay ripped on the floor. The 
bedclothes had been pulled off his four-poster and the 
drawer had been pulled out of his bedside cabinet, 
the contents strewn over the mattress. 

Harry walked over to the bed, openmouthed, treading 
on a few loose pages of Travels with Trolls. As he and 
Neville pulled the blankets back onto his bed, Ron, 
Dean, and Seamus came in. Dean swore loudly. 

“What happened, Harry?” 

“No idea,” said Harry. But Ron was examining Harry’s 
robes. All the pockets were hanging out. 

Page | 281 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Someone’s been looking for something,” said Ron. “Is 
there anything missing?” 

Harry started to pick up all his things and throw 
them into his trunk. It was only as he threw the last 
of the Lockhart books back into it that he realized 
what wasn’t there. 

“Riddle’s diary’s gone,” he said in an undertone to 
Ron. 

“What?” 

Harry jerked his head toward the dormitory door and 
Ron followed him out. They hurried down to the 
Gryffindor common room, which was half-empty, and 
joined Hermione, who was sitting alone, reading a 
book called Ancient Runes Made Easy. 

Hermione looked aghast at the news. 

“But — only a Gryffindor could have stolen — nobody 
else knows our password — ” 

“Exactly,” said Harry. 

They woke the next day to brilliant sunshine and a 
light, refreshing breeze. 

“Perfect Quidditch conditions!” said Wood 
enthusiastically at the Gryffindor table, loading the 
team’s plates with scrambled eggs. “Harry, buck up 
there, you need a decent breakfast.” 

Harry had been staring down the packed Gryffindor 
table, wondering if the new owner of Riddle’s diary 
was right in front of his eyes. Hermione had been 
urging him to report the robbery, but Harry didn’t like 
the idea. He’d have to tell a teacher all about the 
Page | 282 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




diary, and how many people knew why Hagrid had 
been expelled fifty years ago? He didn’t want to be the 
one who brought it all up again. 

As he left the Great Hall with Ron and Hermione to go 
and collect his Quidditch things, another very serious 
worry was added to Harry’s growing list. He had just 
set foot on the marble staircase when he heard it yet 
again — 

“ Kill this time ... let me rip ... tear ...” 

He shouted aloud and Ron and Hermione both 
jumped away from him in alarm. 

“The voice!” said Harry, looking over his shoulder. “I 
just heard it again — didn’t you?” 

Ron shook his head, wide-eyed. Hermione, however, 
clapped a hand to her forehead. 

“Harry — I think I’ve just understood something! I’ve 
got to go to the library!” 

And she sprinted away, up the stairs. 

“ What does she understand?” said Harry distractedly, 
still looking around, trying to tell where the voice had 
come from. 

“Loads more than I do,” said Ron, shaking his head. 

“But why’s she got to go to the library?” 

“Because that’s what Hermione does,” said Ron, 
shrugging. “When in doubt, go to the library.” 

Harry stood, irresolute, trying to catch the voice 
again, but people were now emerging from the Great 

Page | 283 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Hall behind him, talking loudly, exiting through the 
front doors on their way to the Quidditch pitch. 



“You’d better get moving,” said Ron. “It’s nearly eleven 
— the match — ” 

Harry raced up to Gryffindor Tower, collected his 
Nimbus Two Thousand, and joined the large crowd 
swarming across the grounds, but his mind was still 
in the castle along with the bodiless voice, and as he 
pulled on his scarlet robes in the locker room, his 
only comfort was that everyone was now outside to 
watch the game. 

The teams walked onto the field to tumultuous 
applause. Oliver Wood took off for a warm-up flight 
around the goal posts; Madam Hooch released the 
balls. The Hufflepuffs, who played in canary yellow, 
were standing in a huddle, having a last-minute 
discussion of tactics. 

Harry was just mounting his broom when Professor 
McGonagall came half marching, half running across 
the pitch, carrying an enormous purple megaphone. 

Harry’s heart dropped like a stone. 

“This match has been canceled,” Professor 
McGonagall called through the megaphone, 
addressing the packed stadium. There were boos and 
shouts. Oliver Wood, looking devastated, landed and 
ran toward Professor McGonagall without getting off 
his broomstick. 

“But, Professor!” he shouted. “We’ve got to play — the 
Cup — Gryffindor — ” 

Professor McGonagall ignored him and continued to 
shout through her megaphone: 

Page | 284 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“All students are to make their way back to the House 
common rooms, where their Heads of Houses will give 
them further information. As quickly as you can, 
please!” 

Then she lowered the megaphone and beckoned 
Harry over to her. 

“Potter, I think you’d better come with me. ...” 

Wondering how she could possibly suspect him this 
time, Harry saw Ron detach himself from the 
complaining crowd; he came running up to them as 
they set off toward the castle. To Harry’s surprise, 
Professor McGonagall didn’t object. 

“Yes, perhaps you’d better come, too, Weasley. ...” 

Some of the students swarming around them were 
grumbling about the match being canceled; others 
looked worried. Harry and Ron followed Professor 
McGonagall back into the school and up the marble 
staircase. But they weren’t taken to anybody’s office 
this time. 

“This will be a bit of a shock,” said Professor 
McGonagall in a surprisingly gentle voice as they 
approached the infirmary. “There has been another 
attack ... another double attack.” 

Harry’s insides did a horrible somersault. Professor 
McGonagall pushed the door open and he and Ron 
entered. 

Madam Pomfrey was bending over a sixth-year girl 
with long, curly hair. Harry recognized her as the 
Ravenclaw they’d accidentally asked for directions to 
the Slytherin common room. And on the bed next to 
her was — 

Page | 285 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“HermioneY’ Ron groaned. 

Hermione lay utterly still, her eyes open and glassy. 

“They were found near the library,” said Professor 
McGonagall. “I don’t suppose either of you can 
explain this? It was on the floor next to them. ...” 

She was holding up a small, circular mirror. 

Harry and Ron shook their heads, both staring at 
Hermione. 

“I will escort you back to Gryffindor Tower,” said 
Professor McGonagall heavily. “I need to address the 
students in any case.” 

“All students will return to their House common 
rooms by six o’clock in the evening. No student is to 
leave the dormitories after that time. You will be 
escorted to each lesson by a teacher. No student is to 
use the bathroom unaccompanied by a teacher. All 
further Quidditch training and matches are to be 
postponed. There will be no more evening activities.” 

The Gryffindors packed inside the common room 
listened to Professor McGonagall in silence. She rolled 
up the parchment from which she had been reading 
and said in a somewhat choked voice, “I need hardly 
add that I have rarely been so distressed. It is likely 
that the school will be closed unless the culprit 
behind these attacks is caught. I would urge anyone 
who thinks they might know anything about them to 
come forward.” 

She climbed somewhat awkwardly out of the portrait 
hole, and the Gryffindors began talking immediately. 



Page | 286 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“That’s two Gryffindors down, not counting a 
Gryffindor ghost, one Ravenclaw, and one Hufflepuff,” 
said the Weasley twins’ friend Lee Jordan, counting 
on his fingers. “Haven’t any of the teachers noticed 
that the Slytherins are all safe? Isn’t it obvious all this 
stuff’s coming from Slytherin? The Heir of Slytherin, 
the monster of Slytherin — why don’t they just chuck 
all the Slytherins out?” he roared, to nods and 
scattered applause. 

Percy Weasley was sitting in a chair behind Lee, but 
for once he didn’t seem keen to make his views heard. 
He was looking pale and stunned. 

“Percy’s in shock,” George told Harry quietly. “That 
Ravenclaw girl — Penelope Clearwater — she’s a 
prefect. I don’t think he thought the monster would 
dare attack a prefect.” 

But Harry was only half-listening. He didn’t seem to 
be able to get rid of the picture of Hermione, lying on 
the hospital bed as though carved out of stone. And if 
the culprit wasn’t caught soon, he was looking at a 
lifetime back with the Dursleys. Tom Riddle had 
turned Hagrid in because he was faced with the 
prospect of a Muggle orphanage if the school closed. 
Harry now knew exactly how he had felt. 

“What’re we going to do?” said Ron quietly in Harry’s 
ear. “D’you think they suspect Hagrid?” 

“We’ve got to go and talk to him,” said Harry, making 
up his mind. “I can’t believe it’s him this time, but if 
he set the monster loose last time he’ll know how to 
get inside the Chamber of Secrets, and that’s a start.” 

“But McGonagall said we’ve got to stay in our tower 
unless we’re in class — ” 



Page | 287 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“I think,” said Harry, more quietly still, “it’s time to 
get my dad’s old cloak out again.” 

Harry had inherited just one thing from his father: a 
long and silvery Invisibility Cloak. It was their only 
chance of sneaking out of the school to visit Hagrid 
without anyone knowing about it. They went to bed at 
the usual time, waited until Neville, Dean, and 
Seamus had stopped discussing the Chamber of 
Secrets and finally fallen asleep, then got up, dressed 
again, and threw the cloak over themselves. 

The journey through the dark and deserted castle 
corridors wasn’t enjoyable. Harry, who had wandered 
the castle at night several times before, had never 
seen it so crowded after sunset. Teachers, prefects, 
and ghosts were marching the corridors in pairs, 
staring around for any unusual activity. Their 
Invisibility Cloak didn’t stop them making any noise, 
and there was a particularly tense moment when Ron 
stubbed his toe only yards from the spot where Snape 
stood standing guard. Thankfully, Snape sneezed at 
almost exactly the moment Ron swore. It was with 
relief that they reached the oak front doors and eased 
them open. 

It was a clear, starry night. They hurried toward the 
lit windows of Hagrid ’s house and pulled off the cloak 
only when they were right outside his front door. 

Seconds after they had knocked, Hagrid flung it open. 
They found themselves face-to-face with him aiming a 
crossbow at them. Fang the boarhound barked loudly 
behind him. 

“Oh,” he said, lowering the weapon and staring at 
them. “What ’re you two doin’ here?” 



Page | 288 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“What’s that for?” said Harry, pointing at the 
crossbow as they stepped inside. 



“Nothin’ — nothin’ — “ Hagrid muttered. “I’ve bin 
expectin’ — doesn’ matter — Sit down — I’ll make tea 



He hardly seemed to know what he was doing. He 
nearly extinguished the fire, spilling water from the 
kettle on it, and then smashed the teapot with a 
nervous jerk of his massive hand. 

“Are you okay, Hagrid?” said Harry. “Did you hear 
about Hermione?” 

“Oh, I heard, all righ’,” said Hagrid, a slight break in 
his voice. 

He kept glancing nervously at the windows. He 
poured them both large mugs of boiling water (he had 
forgotten to add tea bags) and was just putting a slab 
of fruitcake on a plate when there was a loud knock 
on the door. 

Hagrid dropped the fruitcake. Harry and Ron 
exchanged panic-stricken looks, then threw the 
Invisibility Cloak back over themselves and retreated 
into a corner. Hagrid checked that they were hidden, 
seized his crossbow, and flung open his door once 
more. 

“Good evening, Hagrid.” 

It was Dumbledore. He entered, looking deadly 
serious, and was followed by a second, very odd- 
looking man. 

The stranger had rumpled gray hair and an anxious 
expression, and was wearing a strange mixture of 

Page | 289 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




clothes: a pinstriped suit, a scarlet tie, a long black 
cloak, and pointed purple boots. Under his arm he 
carried a lime-green bowler. 

“That’s Dad’s boss!” Ron breathed. “Cornelius Fudge, 
the Minister of Magic!” 

Harry elbowed Ron hard to make him shut up. 

Hagrid had gone pale and sweaty. He dropped into 
one of his chairs and looked from Dumbledore to 
Cornelius Fudge. 

“Bad business, Hagrid,” said Fudge in rather clipped 
tones. “Very bad business. Had to come. Four attacks 
on Muggle-borns. Things’ve gone far enough. 
Ministry’s got to act.” 

“I never,” said Hagrid, looking imploringly at 
Dumbledore. “You know I never, Professor 
Dumbledore, sir — ” 

“I want it understood, Cornelius, that Hagrid has my 
full confidence,” said Dumbledore, frowning at Fudge. 

“Look, Albus,” said Fudge, uncomfortably. “Hagrid’s 
record’s against him. Ministry’s got to do something 
— the school governors have been in touch — ” 

“Yet again, Cornelius, I tell you that taking Hagrid 
away will not help in the slightest,” said Dumbledore. 
His blue eyes were full of a fire Harry had never seen 
before. 

“Look at it from my point of view,” said Fudge, 
fidgeting with his bowler. “I’m under a lot of pressure. 
Got to be seen to be doing something. If it turns out it 
wasn’t Hagrid, he’ll be back and no more said. But 



Page | 290 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




I’ve got to take him. Got to. Wouldn’t be doing my 
duty — ” 

“Take me?” said Hagrid, who was trembling. “Take me 
where?” 

“For a short stretch only,” said Fudge, not meeting 
Hagrid ’s eyes. “Not a punishment, Hagrid, more a 
precaution. If someone else is caught, you’ll be let out 
with a full apology — ” 

“Not Azkaban?” croaked Hagrid. 

Before Fudge could answer, there was another loud 
rap on the door. 

Dumbledore answered it. It was Harry’s turn for an 
elbow in the ribs; he’d let out an audible gasp. 

Mr. Lucius Malfoy strode into Hagrid’s hut, swathed 
in a long black traveling cloak, smiling a cold and 
satisfied smile. Fang started to growl. 

“Already here, Fudge,” he said approvingly. “Good, 
good...” 

“What’re you doin’ here?” said Hagrid furiously. “Get 
outta my house!” 

“My dear man, please believe me, I have no pleasure 
at all in being inside your — er — d’you call this a 
house?” said Lucius Malfoy, sneering as he looked 
around the small cabin. “I simply called at the school 
and was told that the headmaster was here.” 

“And what exactly did you want with me, Lucius?” 
said Dumbledore. He spoke politely, but the fire was 
still blazing in his blue eyes. 



Page | 291 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“ Dreadful thing, Dumbledore,” said Malfoy lazily, 
taking out a long roll of parchment, “but the 
governors feel it’s time for you to step aside. This is 
an Order of Suspension — you’ll find all twelve 
signatures on it. I’m afraid we feel you’re losing your 
touch. How many attacks have there been now? Two 
more this afternoon, wasn’t it? At this rate, there’ll be 
no Muggle-borns left at Hogwarts, and we all know 
what an awful loss that would be to the school.” 

“Oh, now, see here, Lucius,” said Fudge, looking 
alarmed, “Dumbledore suspended — no, no — last 
thing we want just now — ” 

“The appointment — or suspension — of the 
headmaster is a matter for the governors, Fudge,” 
said Mr. Malfoy smoothly. “And as Dumbledore has 
failed to stop these attacks — ” 

“See here, Malfoy, if Dumbledore can’t stop them,” 
said Fudge, whose upper lip was sweating now, “I 
mean to say, who can?” 

“That remains to be seen,” said Mr. Malfoy with a 
nasty smile. “But as all twelve of us have voted — ” 

Hagrid leapt to his feet, his shaggy black head grazing 
the ceiling. 

“An’ how many did yeh have ter threaten an’ 
blackmail before they agreed, Malfoy, eh?” he roared. 

“Dear, dear, you know, that temper of yours will lead 
you into trouble one of these days, Hagrid,” said Mr. 
Malfoy. “I would advise you not to shout at the 
Azkaban guards like that. They won’t like it at all.” 

“Yeh can’ take Dumbledore!” yelled Hagrid, making 
Fang the boarhound cower and whimper in his 

Page | 292 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




basket. “Take him away, an’ the Muggle-borns won’ 
stand a chance! There’ll be killin’ next!” 

“Calm yourself, Hagrid,” said Dumbledore sharply. He 
looked at Lucius Malfoy. 

“If the governors want my removal, Lucius, I shall of 
course step aside — ” 

“But — ” stuttered Fudge. 

“iVo!” growled Hagrid. 

Dumbledore had not taken his bright blue eyes off 
Lucius Malfoy’s cold gray ones. 

“However,” said Dumbledore, speaking very slowly 
and clearly so that none of them could miss a word, 
“you will find that I will only truly have left this school 
when none here are loyal to me. You will also find 
that help will always be given at Hogwarts to those 
who ask for it.” 

For a second, Harry was almost sure Dumbledore’s 
eyes flickered toward the corner where he and Ron 
stood hidden. 

“Admirable sentiments,” said Malfoy, bowing. “We 
shall all miss your — er — highly individual way of 
running things, Albus, and only hope that your 
successor will manage to prevent any — ah — killins.” 

He strode to the cabin door, opened it, and bowed 
Dumbledore out. Fudge, fiddling with his bowler, 
waited for Hagrid to go ahead of him, but Hagrid 
stood his ground, took a deep breath, and said 
carefully, “If anyone wanted ter find out some stuff, 
all they’d have ter do would be ter follow the spiders. 
That’d lead ’em right! That’s all I’m sayin’.” 

Page | 293 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Fudge stared at him in amazement. 



“All right, I’m cornin’,” said Hagrid, pulling on his 
moleskin overcoat. But as he was about to follow 
Fudge through the door, he stopped again and said 
loudly, “An’ someone’ll need ter feed Fang while I’m 
away.” 

The door banged shut and Ron pulled off the 
Invisibility Cloak. 

“We’re in trouble now,” he said hoarsely. “No 
Dumbledore. They might as well close the school 
tonight. There’ll be an attack a day with him gone.” 

Fang started howling, scratching at the closed door. 



Page | 294 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 






ARAGOG 

Summer was creeping over the grounds around the 
castle; sky and lake alike turned periwinkle blue and 
flowers large as cabbages burst into bloom in the 
greenhouses. But with no Hagrid visible from the 
castle windows, striding the grounds with Fang at his 
heels, the scene didn’t look right to Harry; no better, 
in fact, than the inside of the castle, where things 
were so horribly wrong. 

Harry and Ron had tried to visit Hermione, but 
visitors were now barred from the hospital wing. 

“We’re taking no more chances,” Madam Pomfrey told 
them severely through a crack in the infirmary door. 
“No, I’m sorry, there’s every chance the attacker might 
come back to finish these people off. ...” 

With Dumbledore gone, fear had spread as never 
before, so that the sun warming the castle walls 
outside seemed to stop at the mullioned windows. 
There was barely a face to be seen in the school that 
didn’t look worried and tense, and any laughter that 

Page | 295 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 



rang through the corridors sounded shrill and 
unnatural and was quickly stifled. 



Harry constantly repeated Dumbledore’s final words 
to himself. “I will only truly have left this school when 
none here are loyal to me. . . . Help will always be given 
at Hog warts to those who ask for it.” But what good 
were these words? Who exactly were they supposed to 
ask for help, when everyone was just as confused and 
scared as they were? 

Hagrid’s hint about the spiders was far easier to 
understand — the trouble was, there didn’t seem to 
be a single spider left in the castle to follow. Harry 
looked everywhere he went, helped (rather reluctantly) 
by Ron. They were hampered, of course, by the fact 
that they weren’t allowed to wander off on their own 
but had to move around the castle in a pack with the 
other Gryffindors. Most of their fellow students 
seemed glad that they were being shepherded from 
class to class by teachers, but Harry found it very 
irksome. 

One person, however, seemed to be thoroughly 
enjoying the atmosphere of terror and suspicion. 

Draco Malfoy was strutting around the school as 
though he had just been appointed Head Boy. Harry 
didn’t realize what he was so pleased about until the 
Potions lesson about two weeks after Dumbledore and 
Hagrid had left, when, sitting right behind Malfoy, 
Harry overheard him gloating to Crabbe and Goyle. 

“I always thought Father might be the one who got rid 
of Dumbledore,” he said, not troubling to keep his 
voice down. “I told you he thinks Dumbledore’s the 
worst headmaster the school’s ever had. Maybe we’ll 
get a decent headmaster now. Someone who won’t 
want the Chamber of Secrets closed. McGonagall 
won’t last long, she’s only filling in. ...” 

Page | 296 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Snape swept past Harry, making no comment about 
Hermione’s empty seat and cauldron. 

“Sir,” said Malfoy loudly. “Sir, why don’t you apply for 
the headmaster’s job?” 

“Now, now, Malfoy,” said Snape, though he couldn’t 
suppress a thin-lipped smile. “Professor Dumbledore 
has only been suspended by the governors. I daresay 
he’ll be back with us soon enough.” 

“Yeah, right,” said Malfoy, smirking. “I expect you’d 
have Father’s vote, sir, if you wanted to apply for the 
job — I’ll tell Father you’re the best teacher here, sir 



Snape smirked as he swept off around the dungeon, 
fortunately not spotting Seamus Finnigan, who was 
pretending to vomit into his cauldron. 

“I’m quite surprised the Mudbloods haven’t all packed 
their bags by now,” Malfoy went on. “Bet you five 
Galleons the next one dies. Pity it wasn’t Granger — ” 

The bell rang at that moment, which was lucky; at 
Malfoy’s last words, Ron had leapt off his stool, and in 
the scramble to collect bags and books, his attempts 
to reach Malfoy went unnoticed. 

“Let me at him,” Ron growled as Harry and Dean 
hung onto his arms. “I don’t care, I don’t need my 
wand, I’m going to kill him with my bare hands — ” 

“Hurry up, I’ve got to take you all to Herbology,” 
barked Snape over the class’s heads, and off they 
marched, with Harry, Ron, and Dean bringing up the 
rear, Ron still trying to get loose. It was only safe to 
let go of him when Snape had seen them out of the 



Page | 297 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




castle and they were making their way across the 
vegetable patch toward the greenhouses. 

The Herbology class was very subdued; there were 
now two missing from their number, Justin and 
Hermione. 

Professor Sprout set them all to work pruning the 
Abyssinian Shrivelfigs. Harry went to tip an armful of 
withered stalks onto the compost heap and found 
himself face-to-face with Ernie Macmillan. Ernie took 
a deep breath and said, very formally, “I just want to 
say, Harry, that I’m sorry I ever suspected you. I 
know you’d never attack Hermione Granger, and I 
apologize for all the stuff I said. We’re all in the same 
boat now, and, well — ” 

He held out a pudgy hand, and Harry shook it. 

Ernie and his friend Hannah came to work at the 
same Shrivelfig as Harry and Ron. 

“That Draco Malfoy character,” said Ernie, breaking 
off dead twigs, “he seems very pleased about all this, 
doesn’t he? D’you know, I think he might be 
Slytherin’s heir.” 

“That’s clever of you,” said Ron, who didn’t seem to 
have forgiven Ernie as readily as Harry. 

“Do you think it’s Malfoy, Harry?” Ernie asked. 

“No,” said Harry, so firmly that Ernie and Hannah 
stared. 

A second later, Harry spotted something. 

Several large spiders were scuttling over the ground 
on the other side of the glass, moving in an 

Page | 298 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




unnaturally straight line as though taking the 
shortest route to a prearranged meeting. Harry hit 
Ron over the hand with his pruning shears. 

“Ouch\ What ’re you — ” 

Harry pointed out the spiders, following their progress 
with his eyes screwed up against the sun. 

“Oh, yeah,” said Ron, trying, and failing, to look 
pleased. “But we can’t follow them now — ” 

Ernie and Hannah were listening curiously. 

Harry’s eyes narrowed as he focused on the spiders. If 
they pursued their fixed course, there could be no 
doubt about where they would end up. 

“Looks like they’re heading for the Forbidden Forest. 



And Ron looked even unhappier about that. 

At the end of the lesson Professor Sprout escorted the 
class to their Defense Against the Dark Arts lesson. 
Harry and Ron lagged behind the others so they could 
talk out of earshot. 

“Well have to use the Invisibility Cloak again,” Harry 
told Ron. “We can take Fang with us. He’s used to 
going into the forest with Hagrid, he might be some 
help.” 

“Right,” said Ron, who was twirling his wand 
nervously in his fingers. “Er — aren’t there — aren’t 
there supposed to be werewolves in the forest?” he 
added as they took their usual places at the back of 
Lockhart’s classroom. 



Page | 299 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Preferring not to answer that question, Harry said, 
“There are good things in there, too. The centaurs are 
all right, and the unicorns ...” 

Ron had never been into the Forbidden Forest before. 
Harry had entered it only once and had hoped never 
to do so again. 

Lockhart bounded into the room and the class stared 
at him. Every other teacher in the place was looking 
grimmer than usual, but Lockhart appeared nothing 
short of buoyant. 

“Come now,” he cried, beaming around him. “Why all 
these long faces?” 

People swapped exasperated looks, but nobody 
answered. 

“Don’t you people realize,” said Lockhart, speaking 
slowly, as though they were all a bit dim, “the danger 
has passed! The culprit has been taken away — ” 

“Says who?” said Dean Thomas loudly. 

“My dear young man, the Minister of Magic wouldn’t 
have taken Hagrid if he hadn’t been one hundred 
percent sure that he was guilty,” said Lockhart, in the 
tone of someone explaining that one and one made 
two. 

“Oh, yes he would,” said Ron, even more loudly than 
Dean. 

“I flatter myself I know a touch more about Hagrid ’s 
arrest than you do, Mr. Weasley,” said Lockhart in a 
self-satisfied tone. 



Page | 300 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Ron started to say that he didn’t think so, somehow, 
but stopped in midsentence when Harry kicked him 
hard under the desk. 



“We weren’t there, remember?” Harry muttered. 

But Lockhart’s disgusting cheeriness, his hints that 
he had always thought Hagrid was no good, his 
confidence that the whole business was now at an 
end, irritated Harry so much that he yearned to throw 
Gadding with Ghouls right in Lockhart’s stupid face. 
Instead he contented himself with scrawling a note to 
Ron: Let’s do it tonight 

Ron read the message, swallowed hard, and looked 
sideways at the empty seat usually filled by 
Hermione. The sight seemed to stiffen his resolve, and 
he nodded. 



The Gryffindor common room was always very 
crowded these days, because from six o’clock onward 
the Gryffindors had nowhere else to go. They also had 
plenty to talk about, with the result that the common 
room often didn’t empty until past midnight. 

Harry went to get the Invisibility Cloak out of his 
trunk right after dinner, and spent the evening sitting 
on it, waiting for the room to clear. Fred and George 
challenged Harry and Ron to a few games of 
Exploding Snap, and Ginny sat watching them, very 
subdued in Hermione ’s usual chair. Harry and Ron 
kept losing on purpose, trying to finish the games 
quickly, but even so, it was well past midnight when 
Fred, George, and Ginny finally went to bed. 

Harry and Ron waited for the distant sounds of two 
dormitory doors closing before seizing the cloak, 

Page | 301 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




throwing it over themselves, and climbing through the 
portrait hole. 

It was another difficult journey through the castle, 
dodging all the teachers. At last they reached the 
entrance hall, slid back the lock on the oak front 
doors, squeezed between them, trying to stop any 
creaking, and stepped out into the moonlit grounds. 

“ ’Course,” said Ron abruptly as they strode across 
the black grass, “we might get to the forest and find 
there’s nothing to follow. Those spiders might not’ve 
been going there at all. I know it looked like they were 
moving in that sort of general direction, but ...” 

His voice trailed away hopefully. 

They reached Hagrid’s house, sad and sorry-looking 
with its blank windows. When Harry pushed the door 
open, Fang went mad with joy at the sight of them. 
Worried he might wake everyone at the castle with his 
deep, booming barks, they hastily fed him treacle 
toffee from a tin on the mantelpiece, which glued his 
teeth together. 

Harry left the Invisibility Cloak on Hagrid’s table. 
There would be no need for it in the pitch-dark forest. 

“C’mon, Fang, we’re going for a walk,” said Harry, 
patting his leg, and Fang bounded happily out of the 
house behind them, dashed to the edge of the forest, 
and lifted his leg against a large sycamore tree. 

Harry took out his wand, murmured, “Lumos\” and a 
tiny light appeared at the end of it, just enough to let 
them watch the path for signs of spiders. 

“Good thinking,” said Ron. “I’d light mine, too, but 
you know — it’d probably blow up or something. ...” 

Page | 302 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Harry tapped Ron on the shoulder, pointing at the 
grass. Two solitary spiders were hurrying away from 
the wandlight into the shade of the trees. 

“Okay,” Ron sighed as though resigned to the worst, 
“I’m ready. Let’s go.” 

So, with Fang scampering around them, sniffing tree 
roots and leaves, they entered the forest. By the glow 
of Harry’s wand, they followed the steady trickle of 
spiders moving along the path. They walked behind 
them for about twenty minutes, not speaking, 
listening hard for noises other than breaking twigs 
and rustling leaves. Then, when the trees had become 
thicker than ever, so that the stars overhead were no 
longer visible, and Harry’s wand shone alone in the 
sea of dark, they saw their spider guides leaving the 
path. 

Harry paused, trying to see where the spiders were 
going, but everything outside his little sphere of light 
was pitch-black. He had never been this deep into the 
forest before. He could vividly remember Hagrid 
advising him not to leave the forest path last time 
he’d been in here. But Hagrid was miles away now, 
probably sitting in a cell in Azkaban, and he had also 
said to follow the spiders. 

Something wet touched Harry’s hand and he jumped 
backward, crushing Ron’s foot, but it was only Fang’s 
nose. 

“What d’you reckon?” Harry said to Ron, whose eyes 
he could just make out, reflecting the light from his 
wand. 

“We’ve come this far,” said Ron. 



Page | 303 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




So they followed the darting shadows of the spiders 
into the trees. They couldn’t move very quickly now; 
there were tree roots and stumps in their way, barely 
visible in the near blackness. Harry could feel Fang’s 
hot breath on his hand. More than once, they had to 
stop, so that Harry could crouch down and find the 
spiders in the wandlight. 

They walked for what seemed like at least half an 
hour, their robes snagging on low-slung branches and 
brambles. After a while, they noticed that the ground 
seemed to be sloping downward, though the trees 
were as thick as ever. 

Then Fang suddenly let loose a great, echoing bark, 
making both Harry and Ron jump out of their skins. 

“What?” said Ron loudly, looking around into the 
pitch-dark, and gripping Harry’s elbow very hard. 

“There’s something moving over there,” Harry 
breathed. “Listen ... sounds like something big. ...” 

They listened. Some distance to their right, the 
something big was snapping branches as it carved a 
path through the trees. 

“Oh, no,” said Ron. “Oh, no, oh, no, oh — ” 

“Shut up,” said Harry frantically. “It’ll hear you.” 

“Hear me?” said Ron in an unnaturally high voice. 

“It’s already heard Fang!” 

The darkness seemed to be pressing on their eyeballs 
as they stood, terrified, waiting. There was a strange 
rumbling noise and then silence. 

“What d’you think it’s doing?” said Harry. 

Page | 304 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Probably getting ready to pounce,” said Ron. 

They waited, shivering, hardly daring to move. 

“D’you think it’s gone?” Harry whispered. 

“Dunno — ” 

Then, to their right, came a sudden blaze of light, so 
bright in the darkness that both of them flung up 
their hands to shield their eyes. Fang yelped and tried 
to run, but got lodged in a tangle of thorns and yelped 
even louder. 

“Harry!” Ron shouted, his voice breaking with relief. 
“Harry, it’s our car!” 

“What?” 

“Come on!” 

Harry blundered after Ron toward the light, stumbling 
and tripping, and a moment later they had emerged 
into a clearing. 

Mr. Weasley’s car was standing, empty, in the middle 
of a circle of thick trees under a roof of dense 
branches, its headlights ablaze. As Ron walked, 
openmouthed, toward it, it moved slowly toward him, 
exactly like a large, turquoise dog greeting its owner. 

“It’s been here all the time!” said Ron delightedly, 
walking around the car. “Look at it. The forest’s 
turned it wild. ...” 

The sides of the car were scratched and smeared with 
mud. Apparently it had taken to trundling around the 
forest on its own. Fang didn’t seem at all keen on it; 
he kept close to Harry, who could feel him quivering. 

Page | 305 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




His breathing slowing down again, Harry stuffed his 
wand back into his robes. 

“And we thought it was going to attack us!” said Ron, 
leaning against the car and patting it. “I wondered 
where it had gone!” 

Harry squinted around on the floodlit ground for 
signs of more spiders, but they had all scuttled away 
from the glare of the headlights. 

“We’ve lost the trail,” he said. “C’mon, let’s go and find 
them.” 

Ron didn’t speak. He didn’t move. His eyes were fixed 
on a point some ten feet above the forest floor, right 
behind Harry. His face was livid with terror. 

Harry didn’t even have time to turn around. There 
was a loud clicking noise and suddenly he felt 
something long and hairy seize him around the 
middle and lift him off the ground, so that he was 
hanging facedown. Struggling, terrified, he heard 
more clicking, and saw Ron’s legs leave the ground, 
too, heard Fang whimpering and howling — next 
moment, he was being swept away into the dark 
trees. 

Head hanging, Harry saw that what had hold of him 
was marching on six immensely long, hairy legs, the 
front two clutching him tightly below a pair of shining 
black pincers. Behind him, he could hear another of 
the creatures, no doubt carrying Ron. They were 
moving into the very heart of the forest. Harry could 
hear Fang fighting to free himself from a third 
monster, whining loudly, but Harry couldn’t have 
yelled even if he had wanted to; he seemed to have left 
his voice back with the car in the clearing. 



Page | 306 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




He never knew how long he was in the creature’s 
clutches; he only knew that the darkness suddenly 
lifted enough for him to see that the leaf-strewn 
ground was now swarming with spiders. Craning his 
neck sideways, he realized that they had reached the 
ridge of a vast hollow, a hollow that had been cleared 
of trees, so that the stars shone brightly onto the 
worst scene he had ever laid eyes on. 

Spiders. Not tiny spiders like those surging over the 
leaves below. Spiders the size of carthorses, eight- 
eyed, eight-legged, black, hairy, gigantic. The massive 
specimen that was carrying Harry made its way down 
the steep slope toward a misty, domed web in the very 
center of the hollow, while its fellows closed in all 
around it, clicking their pincers excitedly at the sight 
of its load. 

Harry fell to the ground on all fours as the spider 
released him. Ron and Fang thudded down next to 
him. Fang wasn’t howling anymore, but cowering 
silently on the spot. Ron looked exactly like Harry felt. 
His mouth was stretched wide in a kind of silent 
scream and his eyes were popping. 

Harry suddenly realized that the spider that had 
dropped him was saying something. It had been hard 
to tell, because he clicked his pincers with every word 
he spoke. 

“Aragog!” it called. “Aragog!” 

And from the middle of the misty, domed web, a 
spider the size of a small elephant emerged, very 
slowly. There was gray in the black of his body and 
legs, and each of the eyes on his ugly, pincered head 
was milky white. He was blind. 

“What is it?” he said, clicking his pincers rapidly. 

Page | 307 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Men,” clicked the spider who had caught Harry. 



“Is it Hagrid?” said Aragog, moving closer, his eight 
milky eyes wandering vaguely. 

“Strangers,” clicked the spider who had brought Ron. 
“Kill them,” clicked Aragog fretfully. “I was sleeping. 



“We’re friends of Hagrid ’s,” Harry shouted. His heart 
seemed to have left his chest to pound in his throat. 

Click, click, click went the pincers of the spiders all 
around the hollow. 

Aragog paused. 

“Hagrid has never sent men into our hollow before,” 
he said slowly. 

“Hagrid’s in trouble,” said Harry, breathing very fast. 
“That’s why we’ve come.” 

“In trouble?” said the aged spider, and Harry thought 
he heard concern beneath the clicking pincers. “But 
why has he sent you?” 

Harry thought of getting to his feet but decided 
against it; he didn’t think his legs would support him. 
So he spoke from the ground, as calmly as he could. 

“They think, up at the school, that Hagrid’s been 
setting a — a — something on students. They’ve 
taken him to Azkaban.” 

Aragog clicked his pincers furiously, and all around 
the hollow the sound was echoed by the crowd of 

Page | 308 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




spiders; it was like applause, except applause didn’t 
usually make Harry feel sick with fear. 

“But that was years ago,” said Aragog fretfully. “Years 
and years ago. I remember it well. That’s why they 
made him leave the school. They believed that I was 
the monster that dwells in what they call the 
Chamber of Secrets. They thought that Hagrid had 
opened the Chamber and set me free.” 

“And you ... you didn’t come from the Chamber of 
Secrets?” said Harry, who could feel cold sweat on his 
forehead. 

“I!” said Aragog, clicking angrily. “I was not born in 
the castle. I come from a distant land. A traveler gave 
me to Hagrid when I was an egg. Hagrid was only a 
boy, but he cared for me, hidden in a cupboard in the 
castle, feeding me on scraps from the table. Hagrid is 
my good friend, and a good man. When I was 
discovered, and blamed for the death of a girl, he 
protected me. I have lived here in the forest ever 
since, where Hagrid still visits me. He even found me 
a wife, Mosag, and you see how our family has grown, 
all through Hagrid ’s goodness. ...” 

Harry summoned what remained of his courage. 

“So you never — never attacked anyone?” 

“Never,” croaked the old spider. “It would have been 
my instinct, but out of respect for Hagrid, I never 
harmed a human. The body of the girl who was killed 
was discovered in a bathroom. I never saw any part of 
the castle but the cupboard in which I grew up. Our 
kind like the dark and the quiet. ...” 



Page | 309 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“But then . . . Do you know what did kill that girl?” 
said Harry. “Because whatever it is, it’s back and 
attacking people again — ” 

His words were drowned by a loud outbreak of 
clicking and the rustling of many long legs shifting 
angrily; large black shapes shifted all around him. 

“The thing that lives in the castle,” said Aragog, “is an 
ancient creature we spiders fear above all others. Well 
do I remember how I pleaded with Hagrid to let me go, 
when I sensed the beast moving about the school.” 

“What is it?” said Harry urgently. 

More loud clicking, more rustling; the spiders seemed 
to be closing in. 

“We do not speak of it!” said Aragog fiercely. “We do 
not name it! I never even told Hagrid the name of that 
dread creature, though he asked me, many times.” 

Harry didn’t want to press the subject, not with the 
spiders pressing closer on all sides. Aragog seemed to 
be tired of talking. He was backing slowly into his 
domed web, but his fellow spiders continued to inch 
slowly toward Harry and Ron. 

“Well just go, then,” Harry called desperately to 
Aragog, hearing leaves rustling behind him. 

“Go?” said Aragog slowly. “I think not. ...” 

“But — but — ” 

“My sons and daughters do not harm Hagrid, on my 
command. But I cannot deny them fresh meat, when 
it wanders so willingly into our midst. Good-bye, 
friend of Hagrid.” 

Page | 310 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Harry spun around. Feet away, towering above him, 
was a solid wall of spiders, clicking, their many eyes 
gleaming in their ugly black heads. 

Even as he reached for his wand, Harry knew it was 
no good, there were too many of them, but as he tried 
to stand, ready to die fighting, a loud, long note 
sounded, and a blaze of light flamed through the 
hollow. 

Mr. Weasley’s car was thundering down the slope, 
headlights glaring, its horn screeching, knocking 
spiders aside; several were thrown onto their backs, 
their endless legs waving in the air. The car screeched 
to a halt in front of Harry and Ron and the doors flew 
open. 

“Get Fang!” Harry yelled, diving into the front seat; 

Ron seized the boarhound around the middle and 
threw him, yelping, into the back of the car — the 
doors slammed shut — Ron didn’t touch the 
accelerator but the car didn’t need him; the engine 
roared and they were off, hitting more spiders. They 
sped up the slope, out of the hollow, and they were 
soon crashing through the forest, branches whipping 
the windows as the car wound its way cleverly 
through the widest gaps, following a path it obviously 
knew. 

Harry looked sideways at Ron. His mouth was still 
open in the silent scream, but his eyes weren’t 
popping anymore. 

“Are you okay?” 

Ron stared straight ahead, unable to speak. 

They smashed their way through the undergrowth, 
Fang howling loudly in the back seat, and Harry saw 

Page | 311 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




the side mirror snap off as they squeezed past a large 
oak. After ten noisy, rocky minutes, the trees thinned, 
and Harry could again see patches of sky. 

The car stopped so suddenly that they were nearly 
thrown into the windshield. They had reached the 
edge of the forest. Fang flung himself at the window in 
his anxiety to get out, and when Harry opened the 
door, he shot off through the trees to Hagrid’s house, 
tail between his legs. Harry got out too, and after a 
minute or so, Ron seemed to regain the feeling in his 
limbs and followed, still stiff-necked and staring. 

Harry gave the car a grateful pat as it reversed back 
into the forest and disappeared from view. 

Harry went back into Hagrid’s cabin to get the 
Invisibility Cloak. Fang was trembling under a 
blanket in his basket. When Harry got outside again, 
he found Ron being violently sick in the pumpkin 
patch. 

“Follow the spiders,” said Ron weakly, wiping his 
mouth on his sleeve. “I’ll never forgive Hagrid. We’re 
lucky to be alive.” 

“I bet he thought Aragog wouldn’t hurt friends of his,” 
said Harry. 

“That’s exactly Hagrid’s problem!” said Ron, thumping 
the wall of the cabin. “He always thinks monsters 
aren’t as bad as they’re made out, and look where it’s 
got him! A cell in Azkaban!” He was shivering 
uncontrollably now. “What was the point of sending 
us in there? What have we found out, I’d like to 
know?” 

“That Hagrid never opened the Chamber of Secrets,” 
said Harry, throwing the cloak over Ron and prodding 
him in the arm to make him walk. “He was innocent.” 

Page | 312 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Ron gave a loud snort. Evidently, hatching Aragog in 
a cupboard wasn’t his idea of being innocent. 

As the castle loomed nearer Harry twitched the cloak 
to make sure their feet were hidden, then pushed the 
creaking front doors ajar. They walked carefully back 
across the entrance hall and up the marble staircase, 
holding their breath as they passed corridors where 
watchful sentries were walking. At last they reached 
the safety of the Gryffindor common room, where the 
fire had burned itself into glowing ash. They took off 
the cloak and climbed the winding stair to their 
dormitory. 

Ron fell onto his bed without bothering to get 
undressed. Harry, however, didn’t feel very sleepy. He 
sat on the edge of his fourposter, thinking hard about 
everything Aragog had said. 

The creature that was lurking somewhere in the 
castle, he thought, sounded like a sort of monster 
Voldemort — even other monsters didn’t want to 
name it. But he and Ron were no closer to finding out 
what it was, or how it Petrified its victims. Even 
Hagrid had never known what was in the Chamber of 
Secrets. 

Harry swung his legs up onto his bed and leaned 
back against his pillows, watching the moon glinting 
at him through the tower window. 

He couldn’t see what else they could do. They had hit 
dead ends everywhere. Riddle had caught the wrong 
person, the Heir of Slytherin had got off, and no one 
could tell whether it was the same person, or a 
different one, who had opened the Chamber this time. 
There was nobody else to ask. Harry lay down, still 
thinking about what Aragog had said. 



Page | 313 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




He was becoming drowsy when what seemed like 
their very last hope occurred to him, and he suddenly 
sat bolt upright. 

“Ron,” he hissed through the dark, “Ron — ” 

Ron woke with a yelp like Fang’s, stared wildly 
around, and saw Harry. 

“Ron — that girl who died. Aragog said she was found 
in a bathroom,” said Harry, ignoring Neville’s 
snuffling snores from the corner. “What if she never 
left the bathroom? What if she’s still there?” 

Ron rubbed his eyes, frowning through the moonlight. 
And then he understood, too. 

“You don’t think — not Moaning Myrtle ?” 



Page | 314 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 






THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS 

All those times we were in that bathroom, and she 
was just three toilets away,” said Ron bitterly at 
breakfast next day, “and we could’ve asked her, and 
now ...” 

It had been hard enough trying to look for spiders. 
Escaping their teachers long enough to sneak into a 
girls’ bathroom, the girls’ bathroom, moreover, right 
next to the scene of the first attack, was going to be 
almost impossible. 

But something happened in their first lesson, 
Transfiguration, that drove the Chamber of Secrets 
out of their minds for the first time in weeks. Ten 
minutes into the class, Professor McGonagall told 
them that their exams would start on the first of 
June, one week from today. 

“Exams?” howled Seamus Finnigan. “We’re still 
getting exams?” 



Page | 315 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 



There was a loud bang behind Harry as Neville 
Longbottom’s wand slipped, vanishing one of the legs 
on his desk. Professor McGonagall restored it with a 
wave of her own wand, and turned, frowning, to 
Seamus. 

“The whole point of keeping the school open at this 
time is for you to receive your education,” she said 
sternly. “The exams will therefore take place as usual, 
and I trust you are all studying hard.” 

Studying hard! It had never occurred to Harry that 
there would be exams with the castle in this state. 
There was a great deal of mutinous muttering around 
the room, which made Professor McGonagall scowl 
even more darkly. 

“Professor Dumbledore’s instructions were to keep the 
school running as normally as possible,” she said. 
“And that, I need hardly point out, means finding out 
how much you have learned this year.” 

Harry looked down at the pair of white rabbits he was 
supposed to be turning into slippers. What had he 
learned so far this year? He couldn’t seem to think of 
anything that would be useful in an exam. 

Ron looked as though he’d just been told he had to go 
and live in the Forbidden Forest. 

“Can you imagine me taking exams with this?” he 
asked Harry, holding up his wand, which had just 
started whistling loudly. 

Three days before their first exam, Professor 
McGonagall made another announcement at 
breakfast. 



Page | 316 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“I have good news,” she said, and the Great Hall, 
instead of falling silent, erupted. 

“Dumbledore’s coming back!” several people yelled 
joyfully. 

“You’ve caught the Heir of Slytherin!” squealed a girl 
at the Ravenclaw table. 

“Quidditch matches are back on!” roared Wood 
excitedly. 

When the hubbub had subsided, Professor 
McGonagall said, “Professor Sprout has informed me 
that the Mandrakes are ready for cutting at last. 
Tonight, we will be able to revive those people who 
have been Petrified. I need hardly remind you all that 
one of them may well be able to tell us who, or what, 
attacked them. I am hopeful that this dreadful year 
will end with our catching the culprit.” 

There was an explosion of cheering. Harry looked over 
at the Slytherin table and wasn’t at all surprised to 
see that Draco Malfoy hadn’t joined in. Ron, however, 
was looking happier than he’d looked in days. 

“It won’t matter that we never asked Myrtle, then!” he 
said to Harry. “Hermione’ll probably have all the 
answers when they wake her up! Mind you, she’ll go 
crazy when she finds out we’ve got exams in three 
days’ time. She hasn’t studied. It might be kinder to 
leave her where she is till they’re over.” 

Just then, Ginny Weasley came over and sat down 
next to Ron. She looked tense and nervous, and Harry 
noticed that her hands were twisting in her lap. 

“What’s up?” said Ron, helping himself to more 
porridge. 

Page | 317 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Ginny didn’t say anything, but glanced up and down 
the Gryffindor table with a scared look on her face 
that reminded Harry of someone, though he couldn’t 
think who. 

“Spit it out,” said Ron, watching her. 

Harry suddenly realized who Ginny looked like. She 
was rocking backward and forward slightly in her 
chair, exactly like Dobby did when he was teetering 
on the edge of revealing forbidden information. 

“I’ve got to tell you something,” Ginny mumbled, 
carefully not looking at Harry. 

“What is it?” said Harry. 

Ginny looked as though she couldn’t find the right 
words. 

“What?” said Ron. 

Ginny opened her mouth, but no sound came out. 
Harry leaned forward and spoke quietly, so that only 
Ginny and Ron could hear him. 

“Is it something about the Chamber of Secrets? Have 
you seen something? Someone acting oddly?” 

Ginny drew a deep breath and, at that precise 
moment, Percy Weasley appeared, looking tired and 
wan. 

“If you’ve finished eating, I’ll take that seat, Ginny. I’m 
starving, I’ve only just come off patrol duty.” 

Ginny jumped up as though her chair had just been 
electrified, gave Percy a fleeting, frightened look, and 



Page | 318 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




scampered away. Percy sat down and grabbed a mug 
from the center of the table. 



“Percy!” said Ron angrily. “She was just about to tell 
us something important!” 

Halfway through a gulp of tea, Percy choked. 

“What sort of thing?” he said, coughing. 

“I just asked her if she’d seen anything odd, and she 
started to say — ” 

“Oh — that — that’s nothing to do with the Chamber 
of Secrets,” said Percy at once. 

“How do you know?” said Ron, his eyebrows raised. 

“Well, er, if you must know, Ginny, er, walked in on 
me the other day when I was — well, never mind — 
the point is, she spotted me doing something and I, 
um, I asked her not to mention it to anybody. I must 
say, I did think she’d keep her word. It’s nothing, 
really, I’d just rather — ” 

Harry had never seen Percy look so uncomfortable. 

“What were you doing, Percy?” said Ron, grinning. 

“Go on, tell us, we won’t laugh.” 

Percy didn’t smile back. 

“Pass me those rolls, Harry, I’m starving.” 

Harry knew the whole mystery might be solved 
tomorrow without their help, but he wasn’t about to 
pass up a chance to speak to Myrtle if it turned up — 
and to his delight it did, midmorning, when they were 
being led to History of Magic by Gilderoy Lockhart. 

Page | 319 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Lockhart, who had so often assured them that all 
danger had passed, only to be proved wrong right 
away, was now wholeheartedly convinced that it was 
hardly worth the trouble to see them safely down the 
corridors. His hair wasn’t as sleek as usual; it seemed 
he had been up most of the night, patrolling the 
fourth floor. 

“Mark my words,” he said, ushering them around a 
corner. “The first words out of those poor Petrified 
people’s mouths will be ‘It was Hagrid.’ Frankly, I’m 
astounded Professor McGonagall thinks all these 
security measures are necessary.” 

“I agree, sir,” said Harry, making Ron drop his books 
in surprise. 

“Thank you, Harry,” said Lockhart graciously while 
they waited for a long line of Hufflepuffs to pass. “I 
mean, we teachers have quite enough to be getting on 
with, without walking students to classes and 
standing guard all night. ...” 

“That’s right,” said Ron, catching on. “Why don’t you 
leave us here, sir, we’ve only got one more corridor to 
go-” 



“You know, Weasley, I think I will,” said Lockhart. “I 
really should go and prepare my next class — ” 

And he hurried off. 

“Prepare his class,” Ron sneered after him. “Gone to 
curl his hair, more like.” 

They let the rest of the Gryffindors draw ahead of 
them, then darted down a side passage and hurried 
off toward Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom. But just as 



Page | 320 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




they were congratulating each other on their brilliant 
scheme — 

“Potter! Weasley! What are you doing?” 

It was Professor McGonagall, and her mouth was the 
thinnest of thin lines. 

“We were — we were — ” Ron stammered. “We were 
going to — to go and see — ” 

“Hermione,” said Harry. Ron and Professor 
McGonagall both looked at him. 

“We haven’t seen her for ages, Professor,” Harry went 
on hurriedly, treading on Ron’s foot, “and we thought 
we’d sneak into the hospital wing, you know, and tell 
her the Mandrakes are nearly ready and, er, not to 
worry — ” 

Professor McGonagall was still staring at him, and for 
a moment, Harry thought she was going to explode, 
but when she spoke, it was in a strangely croaky 
voice. 

“Of course,” she said, and Harry, amazed, saw a tear 
glistening in her beady eye. “Of course, I realize this 
has all been hardest on the friends of those who have 
been ... I quite understand. Yes, Potter, of course you 
may visit Miss Granger. I will inform Professor Binns 
where you’ve gone. Tell Madam Pomfrey I have given 
my permission.” 

Harry and Ron walked away, hardly daring to believe 
that they’d avoided detention. As they turned the 
corner, they distinctly heard Professor McGonagall 
blow her nose. 



Page | 321 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“That,” said Ron fervently, “was the best story you’ve 
ever come up with.” 

They had no choice now but to go to the hospital wing 
and tell Madam Pomfrey that they had Professor 
McGonagall’s permission to visit Hermione. 

Madam Pomfrey let them in, but reluctantly. 

“There’s just no point talking to a Petrified person,” 
she said, and they had to admit she had a point when 
they’d taken their seats next to Hermione. It was 
plain that Hermione didn’t have the faintest inkling 
that she had visitors, and that they might just as well 
tell her bedside cabinet not to worry for all the good it 
would do. 

“Wonder if she did see the attacker, though?” said 
Ron, looking sadly at Hermione ’s rigid face. “Because 
if he sneaked up on them all, no one’ll ever know. ...” 

But Harry wasn’t looking at Hermione’s face. He was 
more interested in her right hand. It lay clenched on 
top of her blankets, and bending closer, he saw that a 
piece of paper was scrunched inside her fist. 

Making sure that Madam Pomfrey was nowhere near, 
he pointed this out to Ron. 

“Try and get it out,” Ron whispered, shifting his chair 
so that he blocked Harry from Madam Pomfrey’s view. 

It was no easy task. Hermione’s hand was clamped so 
tightly around the paper that Harry was sure he was 
going to tear it. While Ron kept watch he tugged and 
twisted, and at last, after several tense minutes, the 
paper came free. 



Page | 322 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




It was a page torn from a very old library book. Harry 
smoothed it out eagerly and Ron leaned close to read 
it, too. 



Of the many fearsome beasts and monsters that roam 
our land, there is none more curious or more deadly 
than the Basilisk, known also as the King of Serpents. 
This snake, which may reach gigantic size and live 
many hundreds of years, is born from a chicken’s egg, 
hatched beneath a toad. Its methods of killing are 
most wondrous, for aside from its deadly and 
venomous fangs, the Basilisk has a murderous stare, 
and all who are fixed with the beam of its eye shall 
suffer instant death. Spiders flee before the Basilisk, 
for it is their mortal enemy, and the Basilisk flees only 
from the crowing of the rooster, which is fatal to it. 

And beneath this, a single word had been written, in 
a hand Harry recognized as Hermione’s. Pipes. 

It was as though somebody had just flicked a light on 
in his brain. 

“Ron,” he breathed. “This is it. This is the answer. The 
monster in the Chamber’s a basilisk — a giant 
serpent! That’s why I’ve been hearing that voice all 
over the place, and nobody else has heard it. It’s 
because I understand Parseltongue. ...” 

Harry looked up at the beds around him. 

“The basilisk kills people by looking at them. But no 
one’s died — because no one looked it straight in the 
eye. Colin saw it through his camera. The basilisk 
burned up all the film inside it, but Colin just got 
Petrified. Justin ... Justin must’ve seen the basilisk 
through Nearly Headless Nick! Nick got the full blast 
Page | 323 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




of it, but he couldn’t die again ... and Hermione and 
that Ravenclaw prefect were found with a mirror next 
to them. Hermione had just realized the monster was 
a basilisk. I bet you anything she warned the first 
person she met to look around corners with a mirror 
first! And that girl pulled out her mirror — and — ” 

Ron’s jaw had dropped. 

“And Mrs. Norris?” he whispered eagerly. 

Harry thought hard, picturing the scene on the night 
of Halloween. 

“The water ...” he said slowly. “The flood from 
Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom. I bet you Mrs. Norris 
only saw the reflection. ...” 

He scanned the page in his hand eagerly. The more 
he looked at it, the more it made sense. 

"... The crowing of the rooster ... is fatal to if!” he read 
aloud. “Hagrid’s roosters were killed! The Heir of 
Slytherin didn’t want one anywhere near the castle 
once the Chamber was opened! Spiders flee before it\ 

It all fits!” 

“But how’s the basilisk been getting around the 
place?” said Ron. “A giant snake ... Someone would’ve 
seen ...” 

Harry, however, pointed at the word Hermione had 
scribbled at the foot of the page. 

“Pipes,” he said. “Pipes ... Ron, it’s been using the 
plumbing. I’ve been hearing that voice inside the 
walls. ...” 

Ron suddenly grabbed Harry’s arm. 

Page | 324 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“The entrance to the Chamber of Secrets!” he said 
hoarsely. “What if it’s a bathroom? What if it’s in — ” 

“ — Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom,” said Harry. 

They sat there, excitement coursing through them, 
hardly able to believe it. 

“This means,” said Harry, “I can’t be the only 
Parselmouth in the school. The Heir of Slytherin’s 
one, too. That’s how he’s been controlling the 
basilisk.” 

“What’re we going to do?” said Ron, whose eyes were 
flashing. “Should we go straight to McGonagall?” 

“Let’s go to the staffroom,” said Harry, jumping up. 
“She’ll be there in ten minutes. It’s nearly break.” 

They ran downstairs. Not wanting to be discovered 
hanging around in another corridor, they went 
straight into the deserted staffroom. It was a large, 
paneled room full of dark, wooden chairs. Harry and 
Ron paced around it, too excited to sit down. 

But the bell to signal break never came. 

Instead, echoing through the corridors came Professor 
McGonagall’s voice, magically magnified. 

“All students to return to their House dormitories at 
once. All teachers return to the staffroom. Immediately, 
please.” 

Harry wheeled around to stare at Ron. 

“Not another attack? Not now?” 



Page | 325 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“What’ll we do?” said Ron, aghast. “Go back to the 
dormitory?” 

“No,” said Harry, glancing around. There was an ugly 
sort of wardrobe to his left, full of the teachers’ 
cloaks. “In here. Let’s hear what it’s all about. Then 
we can tell them what we’ve found out.” 

They hid themselves inside it, listening to the 
rumbling of hundreds of people moving overhead, and 
the staffroom door banging open. From between the 
musty folds of the cloaks, they watched the teachers 
filtering into the room. Some of them were looking 
puzzled, others downright scared. Then Professor 
McGonagall arrived. 

“It has happened,” she told the silent staffroom. “A 
student has been taken by the monster. Right into 
the Chamber itself.” 

Professor Flitwick let out a squeal. Professor Sprout 
clapped her hands over her mouth. Snape gripped the 
back of a chair very hard and said, “How can you be 
sure?” 

“The Heir of Slytherin,” said Professor McGonagall, 
who was very white, “left another message. Right 
underneath the first one. ‘Her skeleton will lie in the 
Chamber forever.’ ” 

Professor Flitwick burst into tears. 

“Who is it?” said Madam Hooch, who had sunk, weak- 
kneed, into a chair. “Which student?” 

“Ginny Weasley,” said Professor McGonagall. 

Harry felt Ron slide silently down onto the wardrobe 
floor beside him. 

Page | 326 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“We shall have to send all the students home 
tomorrow,” said Professor McGonagall. “This is the 
end of Hogwarts. Dumbledore always said ...” 

The staffroom door banged open again. For one wild 
moment, Harry was sure it would be Dumbledore. 

But it was Lockhart, and he was beaming. 

“So sorry — dozed off — what have I missed?” 

He didn’t seem to notice that the other teachers were 
looking at him with something remarkably like 
hatred. Snape stepped forward. 

“Just the man,” he said. “The very man. A girl has 
been snatched by the monster, Lockhart. Taken into 
the Chamber of Secrets itself. Your moment has come 
at last.” 

Lockhart blanched. 

“That’s right, Gilderoy,” chipped in Professor Sprout. 
“Weren’t you saying just last night that you’ve known 
all along where the entrance to the Chamber of 
Secrets is?” 

“I — well, I — ” sputtered Lockhart. 

“Yes, didn’t you tell me you were sure you knew what 
was inside it?” piped up Professor Flitwick. 

“D-did I? I don’t recall — ” 

“I certainly remember you saying you were sorry you 
hadn’t had a crack at the monster before Hagrid was 
arrested,” said Snape. “Didn’t you say that the whole 
affair had been bungled, and that you should have 
been given a free rein from the first?” 



Page | 327 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Lockhart stared around at his stony-faced colleagues. 



“I — I really never — you may have misunderstood — ” 

“Well leave it to you, then, Gilderoy,” said Professor 
McGonagall. “Tonight will be an excellent time to do 
it. Well make sure everyone’s out of your way. You’ll 
be able to tackle the monster all by yourself. A free 
rein at last.” 

Lockhart gazed desperately around him, but nobody 
came to the rescue. He didn’t look remotely handsome 
anymore. His lip was trembling, and in the absence of 
his usually toothy grin, he looked weak-chinned and 
feeble. 

“V-very well,” he said. “I’ll — I’ll be in my office, 
getting — getting ready.” 

And he left the room. 

“Right,” said Professor McGonagall, whose nostrils 
were flared, “that’s got him out from under our feet. 
The Heads of Houses should go and inform their 
students what has happened. Tell them the Hogwarts 
Express will take them home first thing tomorrow. 

Will the rest of you please make sure no students 
have been left outside their dormitories.” 

The teachers rose and left, one by one. 



It was probably the worst day of Harry’s entire life. 

He, Ron, Fred, and George sat together in a corner of 
the Gryffindor common room, unable to say anything 
to each other. Percy wasn’t there. He had gone to 
send an owl to Mr. and Mrs. Weasley, then shut 
himself up in his dormitory. 

Page | 328 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




No afternoon ever lasted as long as that one, nor had 
Gryffindor Tower ever been so crowded, yet so quiet. 
Near sunset, Fred and George went up to bed, unable 
to sit there any longer. 

“She knew something, Harry,” said Ron, speaking for 
the first time since they had entered the wardrobe in 
the staffroom. “That’s why she was taken. It wasn’t 
some stupid thing about Percy at all. She’d found out 
something about the Chamber of Secrets. That must 
be why she was — ” Ron rubbed his eyes frantically. “I 
mean, she was a pureblood. There can’t be any other 
reason.” 

Harry could see the sun sinking, blood-red, below the 
skyline. This was the worst he had ever felt. If only 
there was something they could do. Anything. 

“Harry,” said Ron. “D’you think there’s any chance at 
all she’s not — you know — ” 

Harry didn’t know what to say. He couldn’t see how 
Ginny could still be alive. 

“D’you know what?” said Ron. “I think we should go 
and see Lockhart. Tell him what we know. He’s going 
to try and get into the Chamber. We can tell him 
where we think it is, and tell him it’s a basilisk in 
there.” 

Because Harry couldn’t think of anything else to do, 
and because he wanted to be doing something, he 
agreed. The Gryffindors around them were so 
miserable, and felt so sorry for the Weasleys, that 
nobody tried to stop them as they got up, crossed the 
room, and left through the portrait hole. 

Darkness was falling as they walked down to 
Lockhart’s office. There seemed to be a lot of activity 

Page | 329 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




going on inside it. They could hear scraping, thumps, 
and hurried footsteps. 

Harry knocked and there was a sudden silence from 
inside. Then the door opened the tiniest crack and 
they saw one of Lockhart’s eyes peering through it. 

“Oh — Mr. Potter — Mr. Weasley — ” he said, opening 
the door a bit wider. “I’m rather busy at the moment 
— if you would be quick — ” 

“Professor, we’ve got some information for you,” said 
Harry. “We think it’ll help you.” 

“Er — well — it’s not terribly — ” The side of 
Lockhart’s face that they could see looked very 
uncomfortable. “I mean — well — all right — ” 

He opened the door and they entered. 

His office had been almost completely stripped. Two 
large trunks stood open on the floor. Robes, jade- 
green, lilac, midnight-blue, had been hastily folded 
into one of them; books were jumbled untidily into 
the other. The photographs that had covered the walls 
were now crammed into boxes on the desk. 

“Are you going somewhere?” said Harry. 

“Er, well, yes,” said Lockhart, ripping a life-size poster 
of himself from the back of the door as he spoke and 
starting to roll it up. “Urgent call — unavoidable — 
got to go — ” 

“What about my sister?” said Ron jerkily. 

“Well, as to that — most unfortunate — ” said 
Lockhart, avoiding their eyes as he wrenched open a 



Page | 330 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




drawer and started emptying the contents into a bag. 
“No one regrets more than I — ” 

“You’re the Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher!” 
said Harry. “You can’t go now! Not with all the Dark 
stuff going on here!” 

“Well — I must say — when I took the job — ” 
Lockhart muttered, now piling socks on top of his 
robes, “nothing in the job description — didn’t expect 



“You mean you’re running away? said Harry 
disbelievingly. “After all that stuff you did in your 
books — ” 

“Books can be misleading,” said Lockhart delicately. 

“You wrote them!” Harry shouted. 

“My dear boy,” said Lockhart, straightening up and 
frowning at Harry. “Do use your common sense. My 
books wouldn’t have sold half as well if people didn’t 
think I’d done all those things. No one wants to read 
about some ugly old Armenian warlock, even if he did 
save a village from werewolves. He’d look dreadful on 
the front cover. No dress sense at all. And the witch 
who banished the Bandon Banshee had a hairy chin. 

I mean, come on — ” 

“So you’ve just been taking credit for what a load of 
other people have done?” said Harry incredulously. 

“Harry, Harry,” said Lockhart, shaking his head 
impatiently, “it’s not nearly as simple as that. There 
was work involved. I had to track these people down. 
Ask them exactly how they managed to do what they 
did. Then I had to put a Memory Charm on them so 
they wouldn’t remember doing it. If there’s one thing I 
Page | 331 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




pride myself on, it’s my Memory Charms. No, it’s been 
a lot of work, Harry. It’s not all book signings and 
publicity photos, you know. You want fame, you have 
to be prepared for a long hard slog.” 

He banged the lids of his trunks shut and locked 
them. 

“Let’s see,” he said. “I think that’s everything. Yes. 
Only one thing left.” 

He pulled out his wand and turned to them. 

“Awfully sorry, boys, but I’ll have to put a Memory 
Charm on you now. Can’t have you blabbing my 
secrets all over the place. I’d never sell another book 



Harry reached his wand just in time. Lockhart had 
barely raised his, when Harry bellowed, 

“ Expelliarmus\ ” 

Lockhart was blasted backward, falling over his 
trunk; his wand flew high into the air; Ron caught it, 
and flung it out of the open window. 

“Shouldn’t have let Professor Snape teach us that 
one,” said Harry furiously, kicking Lockhart’s trunk 
aside. Lockhart was looking up at him, feeble once 
more. Harry was still pointing his wand at him. 

“What d’you want me to do?” said Lockhart weakly. “I 
don’t know where the Chamber of Secrets is. There’s 
nothing I can do.” 

“You’re in luck,” said Harry, forcing Lockhart to his 
feet at wandpoint. “We think we know where it is. 
And what’s inside it. Let’s go.” 



Page | 332 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




They marched Lockhart out of his office and down the 
nearest stairs, along the dark corridor where the 
messages shone on the wall, to the door of Moaning 
Myrtle’s bathroom. 

They sent Lockhart in first. Harry was pleased to see 
that he was shaking. 

Moaning Myrtle was sitting on the tank of the end 
toilet. 

“Oh, it’s you,” she said when she saw Harry. “What do 
you want this time?” 

“To ask you how you died,” said Harry. 

Myrtle’s whole aspect changed at once. She looked as 
though she had never been asked such a flattering 
question. 

“Ooooh, it was dreadful,” she said with relish. “It 
happened right in here. I died in this very stall. I 
remember it so well. I’d hidden because Olive Hornby 
was teasing me about my glasses. The door was 
locked, and I was crying, and then I heard somebody 
come in. They said something funny. A different 
language, I think it must have been. Anyway, what 
really got me was that it was a boy speaking. So I 
unlocked the door, to tell him to go and use his own 
toilet, and then — ” Myrtle swelled importantly, her 
face shining. “I died.” 

“How?” said Harry. 

“No idea,” said Myrtle in hushed tones. “I just 
remember seeing a pair of great, big, yellow eyes. My 
whole body sort of seized up, and then I was floating 
away. ...” She looked dreamily at Harry. “And then I 
came back again. I was determined to haunt Olive 
Page | 333 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Hornby, you see. Oh, she was sorry she’d ever 
laughed at my glasses.” 

“Where exactly did you see the eyes?” said Harry. 

“Somewhere there,” said Myrtle, pointing vaguely 
toward the sink in front of her toilet. 

Harry and Ron hurried over to it. Lockhart was 
standing well back, a look of utter terror on his face. 

It looked like an ordinary sink. They examined every 
inch of it, inside and out, including the pipes below. 
And then Harry saw it: Scratched on the side of one of 
the copper taps was a tiny snake. 

“That tap’s never worked,” said Myrtle brightly as he 
tried to turn it. 

“Harry,” said Ron. “Say something. Something in 
Parseltongue.” 

“But — ” Harry thought hard. The only times he’d ever 
managed to speak Parseltongue were when he’d been 
faced with a real snake. He stared hard at the tiny 
engraving, trying to imagine it was real. 

“Open up,” he said. 

He looked at Ron, who shook his head. 

“English,” he said. 

Harry looked back at the snake, willing himself to 
believe it was alive. If he moved his head, the 
candlelight made it look as though it were moving. 

“Open up,” he said. 



Page | 334 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Except that the words weren’t what he heard; a 
strange hissing had escaped him, and at once the tap 
glowed with a brilliant white light and began to spin. 
Next second, the sink began to move; the sink, in fact, 
sank, right out of sight, leaving a large pipe exposed, 
a pipe wide enough for a man to slide into. 

Harry heard Ron gasp and looked up again. He had 
made up his mind what he was going to do. 

“I’m going down there,” he said. 

He couldn’t not go, not now they had found the 
entrance to the Chamber, not if there was even the 
faintest, slimmest, wildest chance that Ginny might 
be alive. 

“Me too,” said Ron. 

There was a pause. 

“Well, you hardly seem to need me,” said Lockhart, 
with a shadow of his old smile. “I’ll just — ” 

He put his hand on the door knob, but Ron and Harry 
both pointed their wands at him. 

“You can go first,” Ron snarled. 

White-faced and wandless, Lockhart approached the 
opening. 

“Boys,” he said, his voice feeble. “Boys, what good will 
it do?” 

Harry jabbed him in the back with his wand. 

Lockhart slid his legs into the pipe. 



Page | 335 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“I really don’t think — ” he started to say, but Ron 
gave him a push, and he slid out of sight. Harry 
followed quickly. He lowered himself slowly into the 
pipe, then let go. 

It was like rushing down an endless, slimy, dark 
slide. He could see more pipes branching off in all 
directions, but none as large as theirs, which twisted 
and turned, sloping steeply downward, and he knew 
that he was falling deeper below the school than even 
the dungeons. Behind him he could hear Ron, 
thudding slightly at the curves. 

And then, just as he had begun to worry about what 
would happen when he hit the ground, the pipe 
leveled out, and he shot out of the end with a wet 
thud, landing on the damp floor of a dark stone 
tunnel large enough to stand in. Lockhart was getting 
to his feet a little ways away, covered in slime and 
white as a ghost. Harry stood aside as Ron came 
whizzing out of the pipe, too. 

“We must be miles under the school,” said Harry, his 
voice echoing in the black tunnel. 

“Under the lake, probably,” said Ron, squinting 
around at the dark, slimy walls. 

All three of them turned to stare into the darkness 
ahead. 

“Lumosl” Harry muttered to his wand and it lit again. 
“C’mon,” he said to Ron and Lockhart, and off they 
went, their footsteps slapping loudly on the wet floor. 

The tunnel was so dark that they could only see a 
little distance ahead. Their shadows on the wet walls 
looked monstrous in the wandlight. 



Page | 336 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Remember,” Harry said quietly as they walked 
cautiously forward, “any sign of movement, close your 
eyes right away. ...” 

But the tunnel was quiet as the grave, and the first 
unexpected sound they heard was a loud crunch as 
Ron stepped on what turned out to be a rat’s skull. 
Harry lowered his wand to look at the floor and saw 
that it was littered with small animal bones. Trying 
very hard not to imagine what Ginny might look like if 
they found her, Harry led the way forward, around a 
dark bend in the tunnel. 

“Harry — there’s something up there — ” said Ron 
hoarsely, grabbing Harry’s shoulder. 

They froze, watching. Harry could just see the outline 
of something huge and curved, lying right across the 
tunnel. It wasn’t moving. 

“Maybe it’s asleep,” he breathed, glancing back at the 
other two. Lockhart’s hands were pressed over his 
eyes. Harry turned back to look at the thing, his heart 
beating so fast it hurt. 

Very slowly, his eyes as narrow as he could make 
them and still see, Harry edged forward, his wand 
held high. 

The light slid over a gigantic snake skin, of a vivid, 
poisonous green, lying curled and empty across the 
tunnel floor. The creature that had shed it must have 
been twenty feet long at least. 

“Blimey,” said Ron weakly. 

There was a sudden movement behind them. Gilderoy 
Lockhart’s knees had given way. 



Page | 337 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Get up,” said Ron sharply, pointing his wand at 
Lockhart. 

Lockhart got to his feet — then he dived at Ron, 
knocking him to the ground. 

Harry jumped forward, but too late — Lockhart was 
straightening up, panting, Ron’s wand in his hand 
and a gleaming smile back on his face. 

“The adventure ends here, boys!” he said. “I shall take 
a bit of this skin back up to the school, tell them I 
was too late to save the girl, and that you two 
tragically lost your minds at the sight of her mangled 
body — say good-bye to your memories!” 

He raised Ron’s Spellotaped wand high over his head 
and yelled, “Obliviatel” 

The wand exploded with the force of a small bomb. 
Harry flung his arms over his head and ran, slipping 
over the coils of snake skin, out of the way of great 
chunks of tunnel ceiling that were thundering to the 
floor. Next moment, he was standing alone, gazing at 
a solid wall of broken rock. 

“Ron!” he shouted. “Are you okay? Ron!” 

“I’m here!” came Ron’s muffled voice from behind the 
rock-fall. “I’m okay — this git’s not, though — he got 
blasted by the wand — ” 

There was a dull thud and a loud “ow!” It sounded as 
though Ron had just kicked Lockhart in the shins. 

“What now?” Ron’s voice said, sounding desperate. 
“We can’t get through — it’ll take ages. ...” 



Page | 338 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Harry looked up at the tunnel ceiling. Huge cracks 
had appeared in it. He had never tried to break apart 
anything as large as these rocks by magic, and now 
didn’t seem a good moment to try — what if the whole 
tunnel caved in? 

There was another thud and another “ow!” from 
behind the rocks. They were wasting time. Ginny had 
already been in the Chamber of Secrets for hours. ... 
Harry knew there was only one thing to do. 

“Wait there,” he called to Ron. “Wait with Lockhart. I’ll 
go on. ... If I’m not back in an hour ...” 

There was a very pregnant pause. 

“I’ll try and shift some of this rock,” said Ron, who 
seemed to be trying to keep his voice steady. “So you 
can — can get back through. And, Harry — ” 

“See you in a bit,” said Harry, trying to inject some 
confidence into his shaking voice. 

And he set off alone past the giant snake skin. 

Soon the distant noise of Ron straining to shift the 
rocks was gone. The tunnel turned and turned again. 
Every nerve in Harry’s body was tingling 
unpleasantly. He wanted the tunnel to end, yet 
dreaded what he’d find when it did. And then, at last, 
as he crept around yet another bend, he saw a solid 
wall ahead on which two entwined serpents were 
carved, their eyes set with great, glinting emeralds. 

Harry approached, his throat very dry. There was no 
need to pretend these stone snakes were real; their 
eyes looked strangely alive. 



Page | 339 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




He could guess what he had to do. He cleared his 
throat, and the emerald eyes seemed to flicker. 

“Open,” said Harry, in a low, faint hiss. 

The serpents parted as the wall cracked open, the 
halves slid smoothly out of sight, and Harry, shaking 
from head to foot, walked inside. 



Page | 340 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 






THE HEIR OF SLYTHERIN 

He was standing at the end of a very long, dimly lit 
chamber. Towering stone pillars entwined with more 
carved serpents rose to support a ceiling lost in 
darkness, casting long, black shadows through the 
odd, greenish gloom that filled the place. 

His heart beating very fast, Harry stood listening to 
the chill silence. Could the basilisk be lurking in a 
shadowy corner, behind a pillar? And where was 
Ginny? 

He pulled out his wand and moved forward between 
the serpentine columns. Every careful footstep echoed 
loudly off the shadowy walls. He kept his eyes 
narrowed, ready to clamp them shut at the smallest 
sign of movement. The hollow eye sockets of the stone 
snakes seemed to be following him. More than once, 
with a jolt of the stomach, he thought he saw one stir. 

Then, as he drew level with the last pair of pillars, a 
statue high as the Chamber itself loomed into view, 
standing against the back wall. 

Page | 341 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 



Harry had to crane his neck to look up into the giant 
face above: It was ancient and monkeyish, with a 
long, thin beard that fell almost to the bottom of the 
wizard’s sweeping stone robes, where two enormous 
gray feet stood on the smooth Chamber floor. And 
between the feet, facedown, lay a small, black-robed 
figure with flaming-red hair. 

“Ginnyl” Harry muttered, sprinting to her and 
dropping to his knees. “Ginny — don’t be dead — 
please don’t be dead — ” He flung his wand aside, 
grabbed Ginny’s shoulders, and turned her over. Her 
face was white as marble, and as cold, yet her eyes 
were closed, so she wasn’t Petrified. But then she 
must be — 

“Ginny, please wake up,” Harry muttered desperately, 
shaking her. Ginny’s head lolled hopelessly from side 
to side. 

“She won’t wake,” said a soft voice. 

Harry jumped and spun around on his knees. 

A tall, black-haired boy was leaning against the 
nearest pillar, watching. He was strangely blurred 
around the edges, as though Harry were looking at 
him through a misted window. But there was no 
mistaking him — 

“Tom — Tom Riddle?” 

Riddle nodded, not taking his eyes off Harry’s face. 

“What d’you mean, she won’t wake?” Harry said 
desperately. “She’s not — she’s not — ?” 

“She’s still alive,” said Riddle. “But only just.” 



Page | 342 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Harry stared at him. Tom Riddle had been at 
Hogwarts fifty years ago, yet here he stood, a weird, 
misty light shining about him, not a day older than 
sixteen. 

“Are you a ghost?” Harry said uncertainly. 

“A memory,” said Riddle quietly. “Preserved in a diary 
for fifty years.” 

He pointed toward the floor near the statue’s giant 
toes. Lying open there was the little black diary Harry 
had found in Moaning Myrtle’s bathroom. For a 
second, Harry wondered how it had got there — but 
there were more pressing matters to deal with. 

“You’ve got to help me, Tom,” Harry said, raising 
Ginny’s head again. “We’ve got to get her out of here. 
There’s a basilisk ... I don’t know where it is, but it 
could be along any moment. ... Please, help me — ” 

Riddle didn’t move. Harry, sweating, managed to hoist 
Ginny half off the floor, and bent to pick up his wand 
again. 

But his wand had gone. 

“Did you see — ?” 

He looked up. Riddle was still watching him — 
twirling Harry’s wand between his long fingers. 

“Thanks,” said Harry, stretching out his hand for it. 

A smile curled the corners of Riddle’s mouth. He 
continued to stare at Harry, twirling the wand idly. 



Page | 343 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Listen,” said Harry urgently, his knees sagging with 
Ginny’s dead weight. “We’ve got to go\ If the basilisk 
comes — ” 

“It won’t come until it is called,” said Riddle calmly. 

Harry lowered Ginny back onto the floor, unable to 
hold her up any longer. 

“What d’you mean?” he said. “Look, give me my wand, 
I might need it — ” 

Riddle’s smile broadened. 

“You won’t be needing it,” he said. 

Harry stared at him. 

“What d’you mean, I won’t be — ?” 

“I’ve waited a long time for this, Harry Potter,” said 
Riddle. “For the chance to see you. To speak to you.” 

“Look,” said Harry, losing patience, “I don’t think you 
get it. We’re in the Chamber of Secrets. We can talk 
later — ” 

“We’re going to talk now,” said Riddle, still smiling 
broadly, and he pocketed Harry’s wand. 

Harry stared at him. There was something very funny 
going on here. ... 

“How did Ginny get like this?” he asked slowly. 

“Well, that’s an interesting question,” said Riddle 
pleasantly. “And quite a long story. I suppose the real 
reason Ginny Weasley’s like this is because she 



Page | 344 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




opened her heart and spilled all her secrets to an 
invisible stranger.” 

“What are you talking about?” said Harry. 

“The diary,” said Riddle. “My diary. Little Ginny’s been 
writing in it for months and months, telling me all her 
pitiful worries and woes — how her brothers tease 
her, how she had to come to school with secondhand 
robes and books, how” — Riddle’s eyes glinted — 

“how she didn’t think famous, good, great Harry 
Potter would ever like her. ...” 

All the time he spoke, Riddle’s eyes never left Harry’s 
face. There was an almost hungry look in them. 

“It’s very boring, having to listen to the silly little 
troubles of an eleven-year-old girl,” he went on. “But I 
was patient. I wrote back. I was sympathetic, I was 
kind. Ginny simply loved me. No one’s ever 
understood me like you, Tom. ... I’m so glad I’ve got 
this diary to confide in. ... It’s like having a friend I can 
carry around in my pocket. ...” 

Riddle laughed, a high, cold laugh that didn’t suit 
him. It made the hairs stand up on the back of 
Harry’s neck. 

“If I say it myself, Harry, I’ve always been able to 
charm the people I needed. So Ginny poured out her 
soul to me, and her soul happened to be exactly what 
I wanted. ... I grew stronger and stronger on a diet of 
her deepest fears, her darkest secrets. I grew 
powerful, far more powerful than little Miss Weasley. 
Powerful enough to start feeding Miss Weasley a few 
of my secrets, to start pouring a little of my soul back 
into her ...” 



Page | 345 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“What d’you mean?” said Harry, whose mouth had 
gone very dry. 

“Haven’t you guessed yet, Harry Potter?” said Riddle 
softly. “Ginny Weasley opened the Chamber of 
Secrets. She strangled the school roosters and 
daubed threatening messages on the walls. She set 
the Serpent of Slytherin on four Mudbloods, and the 
Squib’s cat.” 

“No,” Harry whispered. 

“Yes,” said Riddle, calmly. “Of course, she didn’t know 
what she was doing at first. It was very amusing. I 
wish you could have seen her new diary entries . . . far 
more interesting, they became. ... Dear Tom,” he 
recited, watching Harry’s horrified face, “7 think I’m 
losing my memory. There are rooster feathers all over 
my robes and I don’t know how they got there. Dear 
Tom, I can’t remember what I did on the night of 
Halloween, but a cat was attacked and I’ve got paint 
all down my front. Dear Tom, Percy keeps telling me 
I’m pale and I’m not myself. I think he suspects me. . . . 
There was another attack today and I don’t know 
where I was. Tom, what am I going to do? I think I’m 
going mad. ... I think I’m the one attacking everyone, 
Tom\” 

Harry’s fists were clenched, the nails digging deep 
into his palms. 

“It took a very long time for stupid little Ginny to stop 
trusting her diary,” said Riddle. “But she finally 
became suspicious and tried to dispose of it. And 
that’s where you came in, Harry. You found it, and I 
couldn’t have been more delighted. Of all the people 
who could have picked it up, it was you, the very 
person I was most anxious to meet. ...” 



Page | 346 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“And why did you want to meet me?” said Harry. 

Anger was coursing through him, and it was an effort 
to keep his voice steady. 

“Well, you see, Ginny told me all about you, Harry,” 
said Riddle. “Your whole fascinating history.” His eyes 
roved over the lightning scar on Harry’s forehead, and 
their expression grew hungrier. “I knew I must find 
out more about you, talk to you, meet you if I could. 
So I decided to show you my famous capture of that 
great oaf, Hagrid, to gain your trust — ” 

“Hagrid’s my friend,” said Harry, his voice now 
shaking. “And you framed him, didn’t you? I thought 
you made a mistake, but — ” 

Riddle laughed his high laugh again. 

“It was my word against Hagrid’s, Harry. Well, you 
can imagine how it looked to old Armando Dippet. On 
the one hand, Tom Riddle, poor but brilliant, 
parentless but so brave, school prefect, model student 
... on the other hand, big, blundering Hagrid, in 
trouble every other week, trying to raise werewolf 
cubs under his bed, sneaking off to the Forbidden 
Forest to wrestle trolls ... but I admit, even / was 
surprised how well the plan worked. I thought 
someone must realize that Hagrid couldn’t possibly be 
the Heir of Slytherin. It had taken me five whole years 
to find out everything I could about the Chamber of 
Secrets and discover the secret entrance ... as though 
Hagrid had the brains, or the power! 

“Only the Transfiguration teacher, Dumbledore, 
seemed to think Hagrid was innocent. He persuaded 
Dippet to keep Hagrid and train him as gamekeeper. 
Yes, I think Dumbledore might have guessed. ... 
Dumbledore never seemed to like me as much as the 
other teachers did. ...” 

Page | 347 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“I bet Dumbledore saw right through you,” said 
Harry, his teeth gritted. 

“Well, he certainly kept an annoyingly close watch on 
me after Hagrid was expelled,” said Riddle carelessly. 
“I knew it wouldn’t be safe to open the Chamber again 
while I was still at school. But I wasn’t going to waste 
those long years I’d spent searching for it. I decided to 
leave behind a diary, preserving my sixteen-year-old 
self in its pages, so that one day, with luck, I would 
be able to lead another in my footsteps, and finish 
Salazar Slytherin’s noble work.” 

“Well, you haven’t finished it,” said Harry 
triumphantly. “No one’s died this time, not even the 
cat. In a few hours the Mandrake Draught will be 
ready and everyone who was Petrified will be all right 
again — ” 

“Haven’t I already told you,” said Riddle quietly, “that 
killing Mudbloods doesn’t matter to me anymore? For 
many months now, my new target has been — you.” 

Harry stared at him. 

“Imagine how angry I was when the next time my 
diary was opened, it was Ginny who was writing to 
me, not you. She saw you with the diary, you see, and 
panicked. What if you found out how to work it, and I 
repeated all her secrets to you? What if, even worse, I 
told you who’d been strangling roosters? So the 
foolish little brat waited until your dormitory was 
deserted and stole it back. But I knew what I must 
do. It was clear to me that you were on the trail of 
Slytherin’s heir. From everything Ginny had told me 
about you, I knew you would go to any lengths to 
solve the mystery — particularly if one of your best 
friends was attacked. And Ginny had told me the 



Page | 348 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




whole school was buzzing because you could speak 
Parseltongue. ... 

“So I made Ginny write her own farewell on the wall 
and come down here to wait. She struggled and cried 
and became very boring. But there isn’t much life left 
in her. ... She put too much into the diary, into me. 
Enough to let me leave its pages at last. ... I have 
been waiting for you to appear since we arrived here. I 
knew you’d come. I have many questions for you, 
Harry Potter.” 

“Like what?” Harry spat, fists still clenched. 

“Well,” said Riddle, smiling pleasantly, “how is it that 
you — a skinny boy with no extraordinary magical 
talent — managed to defeat the greatest wizard of all 
time? How did you escape with nothing but a scar, 
while Lord Voldemort’s powers were destroyed?” 

There was an odd red gleam in his hungry eyes now. 

“Why do you care how I escaped?” said Harry slowly. 
“Voldemort was after your time. ...” 

“Voldemort,” said Riddle softly, “is my past, present, 
and future, Harry Potter. ...” 

He pulled Harry’s wand from his pocket and began to 
trace it through the air, writing three shimmering 
words: 

tom marvolo riddle 

Then he waved the wand once, and the letters of his 
name rearranged themselves: 

i am lord voldemort 



Page | 349 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“You see?” he whispered. “It was a name I was already 
using at Hogwarts, to my most intimate friends only, 
of course. You think I was going to use my filthy 
Muggle father’s name forever? I, in whose veins runs 
the blood of Salazar Slytherin himself, through my 
mother’s side? I, keep the name of a foul, common 
Muggle, who abandoned me even before I was born, 
just because he found out his wife was a witch? No, 
Harry — I fashioned myself a new name, a name I 
knew wizards everywhere would one day fear to 
speak, when I had become the greatest sorcerer in the 
world!” 

Harry’s brain seemed to have jammed. He stared 
numbly at Riddle, at the orphaned boy who had 
grown up to murder Harry’s own parents, and so 
many others. ... At last he forced himself to speak. 

“You’re not,” he said, his quiet voice full of hatred. 

“Not what?” snapped Riddle. 

“Not the greatest sorcerer in the world,” said Harry, 
breathing fast. “Sorry to disappoint you and all that, 
but the greatest wizard in the world is Albus 
Dumbledore. Everyone says so. Even when you were 
strong, you didn’t dare try and take over at Hogwarts. 
Dumbledore saw through you when you were at 
school and he still frightens you now, wherever you’re 
hiding these days — ” 

The smile had gone from Riddle’s face, to be replaced 
by a very ugly look. 

“Dumbledore ’s been driven out of this castle by the 
mere memory of me!” he hissed. 



Page | 350 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“He’s not as gone as you might think!” Harry retorted. 
He was speaking at random, wanting to scare Riddle, 
wishing rather than believing it to be true — 

Riddle opened his mouth, but froze. 

Music was coming from somewhere. Riddle whirled 
around to stare down the empty Chamber. The music 
was growing louder. It was eerie, spine-tingling, 
unearthly; it lifted the hair on Harry’s scalp and made 
his heart feel as though it was swelling to twice its 
normal size. Then, as the music reached such a pitch 
that Harry felt it vibrating inside his own ribs, flames 
erupted at the top of the nearest pillar. 

A crimson bird the size of a swan had appeared, 
piping its weird music to the vaulted ceiling. It had a 
glittering golden tail as long as a peacock’s and 
gleaming golden talons, which were gripping a ragged 
bundle. 

A second later, the bird was flying straight at Harry. It 
dropped the ragged thing it was carrying at his feet, 
then landed heavily on his shoulder. As it folded its 
great wings, Harry looked up and saw it had a long, 
sharp golden beak and a beady black eye. 

The bird stopped singing. It sat still and warm next to 
Harry’s cheek, gazing steadily at Riddle. 

“That’s a phoenix. ...” said Riddle, staring shrewdly 
back at it. 

“Fawkes?” Harry breathed, and he felt the bird’s 
golden claws squeeze his shoulder gently. 

“And that — ” said Riddle, now eyeing the ragged thing 
that Fawkes had dropped, “that’s the old school 
Sorting Hat — ” 

Page | 351 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




So it was. Patched, frayed, and dirty, the hat lay 
motionless at Harry’s feet. 

Riddle began to laugh again. He laughed so hard that 
the dark Chamber rang with it, as though ten Riddles 
were laughing at once — 

“This is what Dumbledore sends his defender! A 
songbird and an old hat! Do you feel brave, Harry 
Potter? Do you feel safe now?” 

Harry didn’t answer. He might not see what use 
Fawkes or the Sorting Hat were, but he was no longer 
alone, and he waited for Riddle to stop laughing with 
his courage mounting. 

“To business, Harry,” said Riddle, still smiling 
broadly. “Twice — in your past, in my future — we 
have met. And twice I failed to kill you. How did you 
survive ? Tell me everything. The longer you talk,” he 
added softly, “the longer you stay alive.” 

Harry was thinking fast, weighing his chances. Riddle 
had the wand. He, Harry, had Fawkes and the Sorting 
Hat, neither of which would be much good in a duel. 

It looked bad, all right . . . but the longer Riddle stood 
there, the more life was dwindling out of Ginny ... and 
in the meantime, Harry noticed suddenly, Riddle’s 
outline was becoming clearer, more solid. ... If it had 
to be a fight between him and Riddle, better sooner 
than later. 

“No one knows why you lost your powers when you 
attacked me,” said Harry abruptly. “I don’t know 
myself. But I know why you couldn’t kill me. Because 
my mother died to save me. My common Muggle-born 
mother,” he added, shaking with suppressed rage. 
“She stopped you killing me. And I’ve seen the real 
you, I saw you last year. You’re a wreck. You’re barely 
Page | 352 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




alive. That’s where all your power got you. You’re in 
hiding. You’re ugly, you’re foul — ” 

Riddle’s face contorted. Then he forced it into an 
awful smile. 

“So. Your mother died to save you. Yes, that’s a 
powerful counter-charm. I can see now ... there is 
nothing special about you, after all. I wondered, you 
see. There are strange likenesses between us, after 
all. Even you must have noticed. Both half-bloods, 
orphans, raised by Muggles. Probably the only two 
Parselmouths to come to Hogwarts since the great 
Slytherin himself. We even look something alike ... 
but after all, it was merely a lucky chance that saved 
you from me. That’s all I wanted to know.” 

Harry stood, tense, waiting for Riddle to raise his 
wand. But Riddle’s twisted smile was widening again. 

“Now, Harry, I’m going to teach you a little lesson. 
Let’s match the powers of Lord Voldemort, Heir of 
Salazar Slytherin, against famous Harry Potter, and 
the best weapons Dumbledore can give him. ...” 

He cast an amused eye over Fawkes and the Sorting 
Hat, then walked away. Harry, fear spreading up his 
numb legs, watched Riddle stop between the high 
pillars and look up into the stone face of Slytherin, 
high above him in the half-darkness. Riddle opened 
his mouth wide and hissed — but Harry understood 
what he was saying. . . . 

“ Speak to me, Slytherin , greatest of the Hogwarts 
Four.” 

Harry wheeled around to look up at the statue, 
Fawkes swaying on his shoulder. 



Page | 353 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Slytherin’s gigantic stone face was moving. 
Horrorstruck, Harry saw his mouth opening, wider 
and wider, to make a huge black hole. 

And something was stirring inside the statue’s mouth. 
Something was slithering up from its depths. 

Harry backed away until he hit the dark Chamber 
wall, and as he shut his eyes tight he felt Fawkes’ 
wing sweep his cheek as he took flight. Harry wanted 
to shout, “Don’t leave me!” but what chance did a 
phoenix have against the king of serpents? 

Something huge hit the stone floor of the Chamber. 
Harry felt it shudder — he knew what was happening, 
he could sense it, could almost see the giant serpent 
uncoiling itself from Slytherin’s mouth. Then he heard 
Riddle’s hissing voice: 

“Kill him.” 

The basilisk was moving toward Harry; he could hear 
its heavy body slithering heavily across the dusty 
floor. Eyes still tightly shut, Harry began to run 
blindly sideways, his hands outstretched, feeling his 
way — Voldemort was laughing — 

Harry tripped. He fell hard onto the stone and tasted 
blood — the serpent was barely feet from him, he 
could hear it coming — 

There was a loud, explosive spitting sound right above 
him, and then something heavy hit Harry so hard 
that he was smashed into the wall. Waiting for fangs 
to sink through his body he heard more mad hissing, 
something thrashing wildly off the pillars — 

He couldn’t help it — he opened his eyes wide enough 
to squint at what was going on. 

Page | 354 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




The enormous serpent, bright, poisonous green, thick 
as an oak trunk, had raised itself high in the air and 
its great blunt head was weaving drunkenly between 
the pillars. As Harry trembled, ready to close his eyes 
if it turned, he saw what had distracted the snake. 

Fawkes was soaring around its head, and the basilisk 
was snapping furiously at him with fangs long and 
thin as sabers — 

Fawkes dived. His long golden beak sank out of sight 
and a sudden shower of dark blood spattered the 
floor. The snake’s tail thrashed, narrowly missing 
Harry, and before Harry could shut his eyes, it turned 

— Harry looked straight into its face and saw that its 
eyes, both its great, bulbous yellow eyes, had been 
punctured by the phoenix; blood was streaming to the 
floor, and the snake was spitting in agony. 

“NO!” Harry heard Riddle screaming. “LEAVE THE 
BIRD! LEAVE THE BIRD! THE BOY IS BEHIND YOU! 
YOU CAN STILL SMELL HIM! KILL HIM!” 

The blinded serpent swayed, confused, still deadly. 
Fawkes was circling its head, piping his eerie song, 
jabbing here and there at its scaly nose as the blood 
poured from its ruined eyes. 

“Help me, help me,” Harry muttered wildly, “someone 

— anyone — ” 

The snake’s tail whipped across the floor again. Harry 
ducked. Something soft hit his face. 

The basilisk had swept the Sorting Hat into Harry’s 
arms. Harry seized it. It was all he had left, his only 
chance — he rammed it onto his head and threw 
himself flat onto the floor as the basilisk’s tail swung 
over him again. 

Page | 355 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Help me — help me — Harry thought, his eyes 
screwed tight under the hat. Please help me — 

There was no answering voice. Instead, the hat 
contracted, as though an invisible hand was 
squeezing it very tightly. 

Something very hard and heavy thudded onto the top 
of Harry’s head, almost knocking him out. Stars 
winking in front of his eyes, he grabbed the top of the 
hat to pull it off and felt something long and hard 
beneath it. 

A gleaming silver sword had appeared inside the hat, 
its handle glittering with rubies the size of eggs. 

“KILL THE BOY! LEAVE THE BIRD! THE BOY IS 
BEHIND YOU! SNIFF — SMELL HIM!” 

Harry was on his feet, ready. The basilisk’s head was 
falling, its body coiling around, hitting pillars as it 
twisted to face him. He could see the vast, bloody eye 
sockets, see the mouth stretching wide, wide enough 
to swallow him whole, lined with fangs long as his 
sword, thin, glittering, venomous — 

It lunged blindly — Harry dodged and it hit the 
Chamber wall. It lunged again, and its forked tongue 
lashed Harry’s side. He raised the sword in both his 
hands — 

The basilisk lunged again, and this time its aim was 
true — Harry threw his whole weight behind the 
sword and drove it to the hilt into the roof of the 
serpent’s mouth — 

But as warm blood drenched Harry’s arms, he felt a 
searing pain just above his elbow. One long, 
poisonous fang was sinking deeper and deeper into 

Page | 356 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




his arm and it splintered as the basilisk keeled over 
sideways and fell, twitching, to the floor. 

Harry slid down the wall. He gripped the fang that 
was spreading poison through his body and wrenched 
it out of his arm. But he knew it was too late. White- 
hot pain was spreading slowly and steadily from the 
wound. Even as he dropped the fang and watched his 
own blood soaking his robes, his vision went foggy. 
The Chamber was dissolving in a whirl of dull color. 

A patch of scarlet swam past, and Harry heard a soft 
clatter of claws beside him. 

“Fawkes,” said Harry thickly. “You were fantastic, 
Fawkes. ...” He felt the bird lay its beautiful head on 
the spot where the serpent’s fang had pierced him. 

He could hear echoing footsteps and then a dark 
shadow moved in front of him. 

“You’re dead, Harry Potter,” said Riddle’s voice above 
him. “Dead. Even Dumbledore’s bird knows it. Do you 
see what he’s doing, Potter? He’s crying.” 

Harry blinked. Fawkes’s head slid in and out of focus. 
Thick, pearly tears were trickling down the glossy 
feathers. 

“I’m going to sit here and watch you die, Harry Potter. 
Take your time. I’m in no hurry.” 

Harry felt drowsy. Everything around him seemed to 
be spinning. 

“So ends the famous Harry Potter,” said Riddle’s 
distant voice. “Alone in the Chamber of Secrets, 
forsaken by his friends, defeated at last by the Dark 
Lord he so unwisely challenged. You’ll be back with 

Page | 357 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




your dear Mudblood mother soon, Harry. ... She 
bought you twelve years of borrowed time . . . but Lord 
Voldemort got you in the end, as you knew he must. 



If this is dying, thought Harry, it’s not so bad. 

Even the pain was leaving him. ... 

But was this dying? Instead of going black, the 
Chamber seemed to be coming back into focus. Harry 
gave his head a little shake and there was Fawkes, 
still resting his head on Harry’s arm. A pearly patch 
of tears was shining all around the wound — except 
that there was no wound — 

“Get away, bird,” said Riddle’s voice suddenly. “Get 
away from him — I said, get away — ” 

Harry raised his head. Riddle was pointing Harry’s 
wand at Fawkes; there was a bang like a gun, and 
Fawkes took flight again in a whirl of gold and scarlet. 

“Phoenix tears ...” said Riddle quietly, staring at 
Harry’s arm. “Of course ... healing powers ... I forgot 



He looked into Harry’s face. “But it makes no 
difference. In fact, I prefer it this way. Just you and 
me, Harry Potter ... you and me. ...” 

He raised the wand — 

Then, in a rush of wings, Fawkes had soared back 
overhead and something fell into Harry’s lap — the 
diary. 

For a split second, both Harry and Riddle, wand still 
raised, stared at it. Then, without thinking, without 

Page | 358 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




considering, as though he had meant to do it all 
along, Harry seized the basilisk fang on the floor next 
to him and plunged it straight into the heart of the 
book. 

There was a long, dreadful, piercing scream. Ink 
spurted out of the diary in torrents, streaming over 
Harry’s hands, flooding the floor. Riddle was writhing 
and twisting, screaming and flailing and then — 

He had gone. Harry’s wand fell to the floor with a 
clatter and there was silence. Silence except for the 
steady drip drip of ink still oozing from the diary. The 
basilisk venom had burned a sizzling hole right 
through it. 

Shaking all over, Harry pulled himself up. His head 
was spinning as though he’d just traveled miles by 
Floo powder. Slowly, he gathered together his wand 
and the Sorting Hat, and, with a huge tug, retrieved 
the glittering sword from the roof of the basilisk’s 
mouth. 

Then came a faint moan from the end of the 
Chamber. Ginny was stirring. As Harry hurried 
toward her, she sat up. Her bemused eyes traveled 
from the huge form of the dead basilisk, over Harry, 
in his blood-soaked robes, then to the diary in his 
hand. She drew a great, shuddering gasp and tears 
began to pour down her face. 

“Harry — oh, Harry — I tried to tell you at b- 
breakfast, but I c -couldn’t say it in front of Percy — it 
was me, Harry — but I — I s-swear I d-didn’t mean to 
— R-Riddle made me, he t-took me over — and — 
how did you kill that — that thing? W-where’s Riddle? 
The last thing I r-remember is him coming out of the 
diary — ” 



Page | 359 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s all right,” said Harry, holding up the diary, and 
showing Ginny the fang hole, “Riddle’s finished. Look! 
Him and the basilisk. C’mon, Ginny, let’s get out of 
here — ” 

“I’m going to be expelled!” Ginny wept as Harry helped 
her awkwardly to her feet. “I’ve looked forward to 
coming to Hogwarts ever since B-Bill came and n-now 
I’ll have to leave and — w-what’ll Mum and Dad say?” 

Fawkes was waiting for them, hovering in the 
Chamber entrance. Harry urged Ginny forward; they 
stepped over the motionless coils of the dead basilisk, 
through the echoing gloom, and back into the tunnel. 
Harry heard the stone doors close behind them with a 
soft hiss. 

After a few minutes’ progress up the dark tunnel, a 
distant sound of slowly shifting rock reached Harry’s 
ears. 

“Ron!” Harry yelled, speeding up. “Ginny’s okay! I’ve 
got her!” 

He heard Ron give a strangled cheer, and they turned 
the next bend to see his eager face staring through 
the sizable gap he had managed to make in the 
rockfall. 

“Ginny\” Ron thrust an arm through the gap in the 
rock to pull her through first. “You’re alive! I don’t 
believe it! What happened? How — what — where did 
that bird come from?” 

Fawkes had swooped through the gap after Ginny. 

“He’s Dumbledore’s,” said Harry, squeezing through 
himself. 



Page | 360 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“How come you’ve got a sword?” said Ron, gaping at 
the glittering weapon in Harry’s hand. 



“I’ll explain when we get out of here,” said Harry with 
a sideways glance at Ginny, who was crying harder 
than ever. 

“But — ” 

“Later,” Harry said shortly. He didn’t think it was a 
good idea to tell Ron yet who’d been opening the 
Chamber, not in front of Ginny, anyway. “Where’s 
Lockhart?” 

“Back there,” said Ron, still looking puzzled but 
jerking his head up the tunnel toward the pipe. “He’s 
in a bad way. Come and see.” 

Led by Fawkes, whose wide scarlet wings emitted a 
soft golden glow in the darkness, they walked all the 
way back to the mouth of the pipe. Gilderoy Lockhart 
was sitting there, humming placidly to himself. 

“His memory’s gone,” said Ron. “The Memory Charm 
backfired. Hit him instead of us. Hasn’t got a clue 
who he is, or where he is, or who we are. I told him to 
come and wait here. He’s a danger to himself.” 

Lockhart peered good-naturedly up at them all. 

“Hello,” he said. “Odd sort of place, this, isn’t it? Do 
you live here?” 

“No,” said Ron, raising his eyebrows at Harry. 

Harry bent down and looked up the long, dark pipe. 

“Have you thought how we’re going to get back up 
this?” he said to Ron. 

Page | 361 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Ron shook his head, but Fawkes the phoenix had 
swooped past Harry and was now fluttering in front of 
him, his beady eyes bright in the dark. He was waving 
his long golden tail feathers. Harry looked uncertainly 
at him. 

“He looks like he wants you to grab hold ...” said Ron, 
looking perplexed. “But you’re much too heavy for a 
bird to pull up there — ” 

“Fawkes,” said Harry, “isn’t an ordinary bird.” He 
turned quickly to the others. “We’ve got to hold on to 
each other. Ginny, grab Ron’s hand. Professor 
Lockhart — ” 

“He means you,” said Ron sharply to Lockhart. 

“You hold Ginny’s other hand — ” 

Harry tucked the sword and the Sorting Hat into his 
belt, Ron took hold of the back of Harry’s robes, and 
Harry reached out and took hold of Fawkes’s 
strangely hot tail feathers. 

An extraordinary lightness seemed to spread through 
his whole body and the next second, in a rush of 
wings, they were flying upward through the pipe. 
Harry could hear Lockhart dangling below him, 
saying, “Amazing! Amazing! This is just like magic!” 
The chill air was whipping through Harry’s hair, and 
before he’d stopped enjoying the ride, it was over — 
all four of them were hitting the wet floor of Moaning 
Myrtle’s bathroom, and as Lockhart straightened his 
hat, the sink that hid the pipe was sliding back into 
place. 

Myrtle goggled at them. 

“You’re alive,” she said blankly to Harry. 

Page | 362 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“There’s no need to sound so disappointed,” he said 
grimly, wiping flecks of blood and slime off his 
glasses. 

“Oh, well ... I’d just been thinking ... if you had died, 
you’d have been welcome to share my toilet,” said 
Myrtle, blushing silver. 

“Urgh!” said Ron as they left the bathroom for the 
dark, deserted corridor outside. “Harry! I think 
Myrtle’s grown fond of you! You’ve got competition, 
Ginny!” 

But tears were still flooding silently down Ginny’s 
face. 

“Where now?” said Ron, with an anxious look at 
Ginny. Harry pointed. 

Fawkes was leading the way, glowing gold along the 
corridor. They strode after him, and moments later, 
found themselves outside Professor McGonagall’s 
office. 

Harry knocked and pushed the door open. 



Page | 363 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 






DOBBY’S REWARD 

For a moment there was silence as Harry, Ron, 

Ginny, and Lockhart stood in the doorway, covered in 
muck and slime and (in Harry’s case) blood. Then 
there was a scream. 

“Ginny\” 

It was Mrs. Weasley, who had been sitting crying in 
front of the fire. She leapt to her feet, closely followed 
by Mr. Weasley, and both of them flung themselves on 
their daughter. 

Harry, however, was looking past them. Professor 
Dumbledore was standing by the mantelpiece, 
beaming, next to Professor McGonagall, who was 
taking great, steadying gasps, clutching her chest. 
Fawkes went whooshing past Harry’s ear and settled 
on Dumbledore ’s shoulder, just as Harry found 
himself and Ron being swept into Mrs. Weasley’s tight 
embrace. 

“You saved her! You saved her! How did you do it?” 

Page | 364 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 



“I think we’d all like to know that,” said Professor 
McGonagall weakly. 

Mrs. Weasley let go of Harry, who hesitated for a 
moment, then walked over to the desk and laid upon 
it the Sorting Hat, the ruby-encrusted sword, and 
what remained of Riddle’s diary. 

Then he started telling them everything. For nearly a 
quarter of an hour he spoke into the rapt silence: He 
told them about hearing the disembodied voice, how 
Hermione had finally realized that he was hearing a 
basilisk in the pipes; how he and Ron had followed 
the spiders into the forest, that Aragog had told them 
where the last victim of the basilisk had died; how he 
had guessed that Moaning Myrtle had been the 
victim, and that the entrance to the Chamber of 
Secrets might be in her bathroom. ... 

“Very well,” Professor McGonagall prompted him as 
he paused, “so you found out where the entrance was 
— breaking a hundred school rules into pieces along 
the way, I might add — but how on earth did you all 
get out of there alive, Potter?” 

So Harry, his voice now growing hoarse from all this 
talking, told them about Fawkes’s timely arrival and 
about the Sorting Hat giving him the sword. But then 
he faltered. He had so far avoided mentioning Riddle’s 
diary — or Ginny. She was standing with her head 
against Mrs. Weasley ’s shoulder, and tears were still 
coursing silently down her cheeks. What if they 
expelled her? Harry thought in panic. Riddle’s diary 
didn’t work anymore. ... How could they prove it had 
been he who’d made her do it all? 

Instinctively, Harry looked at Dumbledore, who 
smiled faintly, the firelight glancing off his half-moon 
spectacles. 

Page | 365 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“What interests me most,” said Dumbledore gently, “is 
how Lord Voldemort managed to enchant Ginny, 
when my sources tell me he is currently in hiding in 
the forests of Albania.” 

Relief — warm, sweeping, glorious relief — swept over 
Harry. 

“W-what’s that?” said Mr. Weasley in a stunned voice. 
“You-Know-Who? En-enchant Ginny? But Ginny ’s not 
... Ginny hasn’t been ... has she?” 

“It was this diary,” said Harry quickly, picking it up 
and showing it to Dumbledore. “Riddle wrote it when 
he was sixteen. ...” 

Dumbledore took the diary from Harry and peered 
keenly down his long, crooked nose at its burnt and 
soggy pages. 

“Brilliant,” he said softly. “Of course, he was probably 
the most brilliant student Hogwarts has ever seen.” 

He turned around to the Weasleys, who were looking 
utterly bewildered. 

“Very few people know that Lord Voldemort was once 
called Tom Riddle. I taught him myself, fifty years 
ago, at Hogwarts. He disappeared after leaving the 
school . . . traveled far and wide . . . sank so deeply into 
the Dark Arts, consorted with the very worst of our 
kind, underwent so many dangerous, magical 
transformations, that when he resurfaced as Lord 
Voldemort, he was barely recognizable. Hardly anyone 
connected Lord Voldemort with the clever, handsome 
boy who was once Head Boy here.” 

“But, Ginny,” said Mrs. Weasley. “What’s our Ginny 
got to do with — with — him?” 



Page | 366 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“His d-diary!” Ginny sobbed. “I’ve b-been writing in it, 
and he’s been w- writing back all year — ” 

“Ginnyl” said Mr. Weasley, flabbergasted. “Haven’t I 
taught you anything ? What have I always told you? 
Never trust anything that can think for itself if you 
can’t see where it keeps its brain. Why didn’t you 
show the diary to me, or your mother? A suspicious 
object like that, it was clearly full of Dark Magic — ” 

“I d-didn’t know,” sobbed Ginny. “I found it inside one 
of the books Mum got me. I th-thought someone had 
just left it in there and forgotten about it — ” 

“Miss Weasley should go up to the hospital wing right 
away,” Dumbledore interrupted in a firm voice. “This 
has been a terrible ordeal for her. There will be no 
punishment. Older and wiser wizards than she have 
been hoodwinked by Lord Voldemort.” He strode over 
to the door and opened it. “Bed rest and perhaps a 
large, steaming mug of hot chocolate. I always find 
that cheers me up,” he added, twinkling kindly down 
at her. “You will find that Madam Pomfrey is still 
awake. She’s just giving out Mandrake juice — I 
daresay the basilisk’s victims will be waking up any 
moment.” 

“So Hermione’s okay!” said Ron brightly. 

“There has been no lasting harm done, Ginny,” said 
Dumbledore. 

Mrs. Weasley led Ginny out, and Mr. Weasley 
followed, still looking deeply shaken. 

“You know, Minerva,” Professor Dumbledore said 
thoughtfully to Professor McGonagall, “I think all this 
merits a good feast Might I ask you to go and alert 
the kitchens?” 

Page | 367 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Right,” said Professor McGonagall crisply, also 
moving to the door. “Ill leave you to deal with Potter 
and Weasley, shall I?” 

“Certainly,” said Dumbledore. 

She left, and Harry and Ron gazed uncertainly at 
Dumbledore. What exactly had Professor McGonagall 
meant, deal with them? Surely — surely — they 
weren’t about to be punished? 

“I seem to remember telling you both that I would 
have to expel you if you broke any more school rules,” 
said Dumbledore. 

Ron opened his mouth in horror. 

“Which goes to show that the best of us must 
sometimes eat our words,” Dumbledore went on, 
smiling. “You will both receive Special Awards for 
Services to the School and — let me see — yes, I think 
two hundred points apiece for Gryffindor.” 

Ron went as brightly pink as Lockhart’s valentine 
flowers and closed his mouth again. 

“But one of us seems to be keeping mightily quiet 
about his part in this dangerous adventure,” 
Dumbledore added. “Why so modest, Gilderoy?” 

Harry gave a start. He had completely forgotten about 
Lockhart. He turned and saw that Lockhart was 
standing in a corner of the room, still wearing his 
vague smile. When Dumbledore addressed him, 
Lockhart looked over his shoulder to see who he was 
talking to. 



Page | 368 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Professor Dumbledore,” Ron said quickly, “there was 
an accident down in the Chamber of Secrets. 
Professor Lockhart — ” 

“Am I a professor?” said Lockhart in mild surprise. 
“Goodness. I expect I was hopeless, was I?” 

“He tried to do a Memory Charm and the wand 
backfired,” Ron explained quietly to Dumbledore. 

“Dear me,” said Dumbledore, shaking his head, his 
long silver mustache quivering. “Impaled upon your 
own sword, Gilderoy!” 

“Sword?” said Lockhart dimly. “Haven’t got a sword. 
That boy has, though.” He pointed at Harry. “He’ll 
lend you one.” 

“Would you mind taking Professor Lockhart up to the 
infirmary, too?” Dumbledore said to Ron. “I’d like a 
few more words with Harry. ...” 

Lockhart ambled out. Ron cast a curious look back at 
Dumbledore and Harry as he closed the door. 

Dumbledore crossed to one of the chairs by the fire. 

“Sit down, Harry,” he said, and Harry sat, feeling 
unaccountably nervous. 

“First of all, Harry, I want to thank you,” said 
Dumbledore, eyes twinkling again. “You must have 
shown me real loyalty down in the Chamber. Nothing 
but that could have called Fawkes to you.” 

He stroked the phoenix, which had fluttered down 
onto his knee. Harry grinned awkwardly as 
Dumbledore watched him. 



Page | 369 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“And so you met Tom Riddle,” said Dumbledore 
thoughtfully. “I imagine he was most interested in 
you. ...” 

Suddenly, something that was nagging at Harry came 
tumbling out of his mouth. 

“Professor Dumbledore ... Riddle said I’m like him. 
Strange likenesses, he said. ...” 

“ Did he, now?” said Dumbledore, looking thoughtfully 
at Harry from under his thick silver eyebrows. “And 
what do you think, Harry?” 

“I don’t think I’m like him!” said Harry, more loudly 
than he’d intended. “I mean, I’m — I’m in Gryffindor, 
I’m ...” 

But he fell silent, a lurking doubt resurfacing in his 
mind. 

“Professor,” he started again after a moment. “The 
Sorting Hat told me I’d — I’d have done well in 
Slytherin. Everyone thought / was Slytherin’s heir for 
a while ... because I can speak Parseltongue. ...” 

“You can speak Parseltongue, Harry,” said 
Dumbledore calmly, “because Lord Voldemort — who 
is the last remaining descendant of Salazar Slytherin 
— can speak Parseltongue. Unless I’m much 
mistaken, he transferred some of his own powers to 
you the night he gave you that scar. Not something he 
intended to do, I’m sure. ...” 

“Voldemort put a bit of himself in me?” Harry said, 
thunderstruck. 

“It certainly seems so.” 



Page | 370 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“So I should be in Slytherin,” Harry said, looking 
desperately into Dumbledore ’s face. “The Sorting Hat 
could see Slytherin ’s power in me, and it — ” 

“Put you in Gryffindor,” said Dumbledore calmly. 
“Listen to me, Harry. You happen to have many 
qualities Salazar Slytherin prized in his hand-picked 
students. His own very rare gift, Parseltongue — 
resourcefulness — determination — a certain 
disregard for rules,” he added, his mustache 
quivering again. “Yet the Sorting Hat placed you in 
Gryffindor. You know why that was. Think.” 

“It only put me in Gryffindor,” said Harry in a 
defeated voice, “because I asked not to go in 
Slytherin. ...” 

“Exactly,” said Dumbledore, beaming once more. 
“Which makes you very different from Tom Riddle. It 
is our choices, Harry, that show what we truly are, far 
more than our abilities.” Harry sat motionless in his 
chair, stunned. “If you want proof, Harry, that you 
belong in Gryffindor, I suggest you look more closely 
at this.” 

Dumbledore reached across to Professor McGonagall’s 
desk, picked up the blood-stained silver sword, and 
handed it to Harry. Dully, Harry turned it over, the 
rubies blazing in the firelight. And then he saw the 
name engraved just below the hilt. 

Godric Gryffindor. 

“Only a true Gryffindor could have pulled that out of 
the hat, Harry,” said Dumbledore simply. 

For a minute, neither of them spoke. Then 
Dumbledore pulled open one of the drawers in 



Page | 371 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Professor McGonagall’s desk and took out a quill and 
a bottle of ink. 

“What you need, Harry, is some food and sleep. I 
suggest you go down to the feast, while I write to 
Azkaban — we need our gamekeeper back. And I 
must draft an advertisement for the Daily Prophet, 
too,” he added thoughtfully. “Well be needing a new 
Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher. ... Dear me, 
we do seem to run through them, don’t we?” 

Harry got up and crossed to the door. He had just 
reached for the handle, however, when the door burst 
open so violently that it bounced back off the wall. 

Lucius Malfoy stood there, fury in his face. And 
cowering behind his legs, heavily wrapped in 
bandages, was Dobby. 

“Good evening, Lucius,” said Dumbledore pleasantly. 

Mr. Malfoy almost knocked Harry over as he swept 
into the room. Dobby went scurrying in after him, 
crouching at the hem of his cloak, a look of abject 
terror on his face. 

The elf was carrying a stained rag with which he was 
attempting to finish cleaning Mr. Malfoy ’s shoes. 
Apparently Mr. Malfoy had set out in a great hurry, 
for not only were his shoes half-polished, but his 
usually sleek hair was disheveled. Ignoring the elf 
bobbing apologetically around his ankles, he fixed his 
cold eyes upon Dumbledore. 

“So!” he said “You’ve come back. The governors 
suspended you, but you still saw fit to return to 
Hogwarts.” 



Page | 372 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, you see, Lucius,” said Dumbledore, smiling 
serenely, “the other eleven governors contacted me 
today. It was something like being caught in a 
hailstorm of owls, to tell the truth. They’d heard that 
Arthur Weasley’s daughter had been killed and 
wanted me back here at once. They seemed to think I 
was the best man for the job after all. Very strange 
tales they told me, too. ... Several of them seemed to 
think that you had threatened to curse their families 
if they didn’t agree to suspend me in the first place.” 

Mr. Malfoy went even paler than usual, but his eyes 
were still slits of fury. 

“So — have you stopped the attacks yet?” he sneered. 
“Have you caught the culprit?” 

“We have,” said Dumbledore, with a smile. 

“Well?” said Mr. Malfoy sharply. “Who is it?” 

“The same person as last time, Lucius,” said 
Dumbledore. “But this time, Lord Voldemort was 
acting through somebody else. By means of this 
diary.” 

He held up the small black book with the large hole 
through the center, watching Mr. Malfoy closely. 
Harry, however, was watching Dobby. 

The elf was doing something very odd. His great eyes 
fixed meaningfully on Harry, he kept pointing at the 
diary, then at Mr. Malfoy, and then hitting himself 
hard on the head with his fist. 

“I see ...” said Mr. Malfoy slowly to Dumbledore. 

“A clever plan,” said Dumbledore in a level voice, still 
staring Mr. Malfoy straight in the eye. “Because if 

Page | 373 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Harry here” — Mr. Malfoy shot Harry a swift, sharp 
look — “and his friend Ron hadn’t discovered this 
book, why — Ginny Weasley might have taken all the 
blame. No one would ever have been able to prove she 
hadn’t acted of her own free will. ...” 

Mr. Malfoy said nothing. His face was suddenly 
masklike. 

“And imagine,” Dumbledore went on, “what might 
have happened then. ... The Weasleys are one of our 
most prominent pure-blood families. Imagine the 
effect on Arthur Weasley and his Muggle Protection 
Act, if his own daughter was discovered attacking and 
killing Muggle-borns. ... Very fortunate the diary was 
discovered, and Riddle’s memories wiped from it. Who 
knows what the consequences might have been 
otherwise. ...” 

Mr. Malfoy forced himself to speak. 

“Very fortunate,” he said stiffly. 

And still, behind his back, Dobby was pointing, first 
to the diary, then to Lucius Malfoy, then punching 
himself in the head. 

And Harry suddenly understood. He nodded at 
Dobby, and Dobby backed into a corner, now twisting 
his ears in punishment. 

“Don’t you want to know how Ginny got hold of that 
diary, Mr. Malfoy?” said Harry. 

Lucius Malfoy rounded on him. 

“How should I know how the stupid little girl got hold 
of it?” he said. 



Page | 374 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“Because you gave it to her,” said Harry. “In Flourish 
and Blotts. You picked up her old Transfiguration 
book and slipped the diary inside it, didn’t you?” 

He saw Mr. Malfoy’s white hands clench and 
unclench. 

“Prove it,” he hissed. 

“Oh, no one will be able to do that,” said Dumbledore, 
smiling at Harry. “Not now that Riddle has vanished 
from the book. On the other hand, I would advise you, 
Lucius, not to go giving out any more of Lord 
Voldemort’s old school things. If any more of them 
find their way into innocent hands, I think Arthur 
Weasley, for one, will make sure they are traced back 
to you. ...” 

Lucius Malfoy stood for a moment, and Harry 
distinctly saw his right hand twitch as though he was 
longing to reach for his wand. Instead, he turned to 
his house-elf. 

“We’re going, Dobby!” 

He wrenched open the door and as the elf came 
hurrying up to him, he kicked him right through it. 
They could hear Dobby squealing with pain all the 
way along the corridor. Harry stood for a moment, 
thinking hard. Then it came to him — 

“Professor Dumbledore,” he said hurriedly. “Can I give 
that diary back to Mr. Malfoy, please?” 

“Certainly, Harry,” said Dumbledore calmly. “But 
hurry. The feast, remember. ...” 

Harry grabbed the diary and dashed out of the office. 
He could hear Dobby’s squeals of pain receding 

Page | 375 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




around the corner. Quickly, wondering if this plan 
could possibly work, Harry took off one of his shoes, 
pulled off his slimy, filthy sock, and stuffed the diary 
into it. Then he ran down the dark corridor. 

He caught up with them at the top of the stairs. 

“Mr. Malfoy,” he gasped, skidding to a halt, “I’ve got 
something for you — ” 

And he forced the smelly sock into Lucius Malfoy’s 
hand. 

“What the — ?” 

Mr. Malfoy ripped the sock off the diary, threw it 
aside, then looked furiously from the ruined book to 
Harry. 

“You’ll meet the same sticky end as your parents one 
of these days, Harry Potter,” he said softly. “They were 
meddlesome fools, too.” 

He turned to go. 

“Come, Dobby. I said, come.” 

But Dobby didn’t move. He was holding up Harry’s 
disgusting, slimy sock, and looking at it as though it 
were a priceless treasure. 

“Master has given a sock,” said the elf in wonderment. 
“Master gave it to Dobby.” 

“What’s that?” spat Mr. Malfoy. “What did you say?” 

“Got a sock,” said Dobby in disbelief. “Master threw it, 
and Dobby caught it, and Dobby — Dobby is free.” 



Page | 376 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




Lucius Malfoy stood frozen, staring at the elf. Then he 
lunged at Harry. 

“You’ve lost me my servant, boy!” 

But Dobby shouted, “You shall not harm Harry 
Potter!” 

There was a loud bang, and Mr. Malfoy was thrown 
backward. He crashed down the stairs, three at a 
time, landing in a crumpled heap on the landing 
below. He got up, his face livid, and pulled out his 
wand, but Dobby raised a long, threatening finger. 

“You shall go now,” he said fiercely, pointing down at 
Mr. Malfoy. “You shall not touch Harry Potter. You 
shall go now.” 

Lucius Malfoy had no choice. With a last, incensed 
stare at the pair of them, he swung his cloak around 
him and hurried out of sight. 

“Harry Potter freed Dobby!” said the elf shrilly, gazing 
up at Harry, moonlight from the nearest window 
reflected in his orb-like eyes. “Harry Potter set Dobby 
free!” 

“Least I could do, Dobby,” said Harry, grinning. “Just 
promise never to try and save my life again.” 

The elf’s ugly brown face split suddenly into a wide, 
toothy smile. 

“I’ve just got one question, Dobby,” said Harry as 
Dobby pulled on Harry’s sock with shaking hands. 
“You told me all this had nothing to do with He-Who- 
Must-Not-Be-Named, remember? Well — ” 



Page | 377 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




“It was a clue, sir,” said Dobby, his eyes widening, as 
though this was obvious. “Was giving you a clue. The 
Dark Lord, before he changed his name, could be 
freely named, you see?” 

“Right,” said Harry weakly. “Well, I’d better go. There’s 
a feast, and my friend Hermione should be awake by 
now. ...” 

Dobby threw his arms around Harry’s middle and 
hugged him. 

“Harry Potter is greater by far than Dobby knew!” he 
sobbed. “Farewell, Harry Potter!” 

And with a final loud crack, Dobby disappeared. 

Harry had been to several Hogwarts feasts, but never 
one quite like this. Everybody was in their pajamas, 
and the celebration lasted all night. Harry didn’t know 
whether the best bit was Hermione running toward 
him, screaming “You solved it! You solved it!” or 
Justin hurrying over from the Hufflepuff table to 
wring his hand and apologize endlessly for suspecting 
him, or Hagrid turning up at half past three, cuffing 
Harry and Ron so hard on the shoulders that they 
were knocked into their plates of trifle, or his and 
Ron’s four hundred points for Gryffindor securing the 
House Cup for the second year running, or Professor 
McGonagall standing up to tell them all that the 
exams had been canceled as a school treat (“Oh, no!” 
said Hermione), or Dumbledore announcing that, 
unfortunately, Professor Lockhart would be unable to 
return next year, owing to the fact that he needed to 
go away and get his memory back. Quite a few of the 
teachers joined in the cheering that greeted this news. 

“Shame,” said Ron, helping himself to a jam 
doughnut. “He was starting to grow on me.” 

Page | 378 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




The rest of the final term passed in a haze of blazing 
sunshine. Hogwarts was back to normal with only a 
few, small differences — Defense Against the Dark 
Arts classes were canceled (“but we’ve had plenty of 
practice at that anyway,” Ron told a disgruntled 
Hermione) and Lucius Malfoy had been sacked as a 
school governor. Draco was no longer strutting 
around the school as though he owned the place. On 
the contrary, he looked resentful and sulky. On the 
other hand, Ginny Weasley was perfectly happy 
again. 

Too soon, it was time for the journey home on the 
Hogwarts Express. Harry, Ron, Hermione, Fred, 
George, and Ginny got a compartment to themselves. 
They made the most of the last few hours in which 
they were allowed to do magic before the holidays. 
They played Exploding Snap, set off the very last of 
Fred and George’s Filibuster fireworks, and practiced 
disarming each other by magic. Harry was getting 
very good at it. 

They were almost at King’s Cross when Harry 
remembered something. 

“Ginny — what did you see Percy doing, that he didn’t 
want you to tell anyone?” 

“Oh, that,” said Ginny, giggling. “Well — Percy’s got a 
girlfriend.” 

Fred dropped a stack of books on George’s head. 
“What?” 

“It’s that Ravenclaw prefect, Penelope Clearwater,” 
said Ginny. “That’s who he was writing to all last 
summer. He’s been meeting her all over the school in 
secret. I walked in on them kissing in an empty 

Page | 379 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 




classroom one day. He was so upset when she was — 
you know — attacked. You won’t tease him, will you?” 
she added anxiously. 

“Wouldn’t dream of it,” said Fred, who was looking 
like his birthday had come early. 

“Definitely not,” said George, sniggering. 

The Hogwarts Express slowed and finally stopped. 

Harry pulled out his quill and a bit of parchment and 
turned to Ron and Hermione. 

“This is called a telephone number,” he told Ron, 
scribbling it twice, tearing the parchment in two, and 
handing it to them. “I told your dad how to use a 
telephone last summer — he’ll know. Call me at the 
Dursleys’, okay? I can’t stand another two months 
with only Dudley to talk to. ...” 

“Your aunt and uncle will be proud, though, won’t 
they?” said Hermione as they got off the train and 
joined the crowd thronging toward the enchanted 
barrier. “When they hear what you did this year? 

“Proud?” said Harry. “Are you crazy? All those times I 
could’ve died, and I didn’t manage it? They’ll be 
furious. ...” 

And together they walked back through the gateway 
to the Muggle world. 



Page | 380 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets - J.K. Rowling 