


But Harry lay still, pretending to be asleep. He heard 
Ron leave again, and rolled over on his back, his eyes 
wide open. 

A hatred such as he had never known before was 
coursing through Harry like poison. He could see 
Black laughing at him through the darkness, as 
though somebody had pasted the picture from the 
album over his eyes. He watched, as though 
somebody was playing him a piece of film, Sirius 
Black blasting Peter Pettigrew (who resembled Neville 
Longbottom) into a thousand pieces. He could hear 
(though having no idea what Black’s voice might 
sound like) a low, excited mutter. “It has happened, 
My Lord . . . the Potters have made me their Secret- 
Keeper. ...” And then came another voice, laughing 
shrilly, the same laugh that Harry heard inside his 
head whenever the dementors drew near. . . . 

“Harry, you — you look terrible.” 

Harry hadn’t gotten to sleep until daybreak. He had 
awoken to find the dormitory deserted, dressed, and 
gone down the spiral staircase to a common room 
that was completely empty except for Ron, who was 
eating a Peppermint Toad and massaging his 
stomach, and Hermione, who had spread her 
homework over three tables. 

“Where is everyone?” said Harry. 

“Gone! It’s the first day of the holidays, remember?” 
said Ron, watching Harry closely. “It’s nearly 
lunchtime; I was going to come and wake you up in a 
minute.” 

Harry slumped into a chair next to the fire. Snow was 
still falling outside the windows. Crookshanks was 
spread out in front of the fire like a large, ginger rug. 

Page | 236 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“You really don’t look well, you know,” Hermione said, 
peering anxiously into his face. 

“I’m fine,” said Harry. 

“Harry, listen,” said Hermione, exchanging a look with 
Ron, “you must be really upset about what we heard 
yesterday. But the thing is, you mustn’t go doing 
anything stupid.” 

“Like what?” said Harry. 

“Like trying to go after Black,” said Ron sharply. 

Harry could tell they had rehearsed this conversation 
while he had been asleep. He didn’t say anything. 

“You won’t, will you, Harry?” said Hermione. 

“Because Black’s not worth dying for,” said Ron. 

Harry looked at them. They didn’t seem to 
understand at all. 

“D’you know what I see and hear every time a 
dementor gets too near me?” Ron and Hermione 
shook their heads, looking apprehensive. “I can hear 
my mum screaming and pleading with Voldemort. 

And if you’d heard your mum screaming like that, 
just about to be killed, you wouldn’t forget it in a 
hurry. And if you found out someone who was 
supposed to be a friend of hers betrayed her and sent 
Voldemort after her — ” 

“There’s nothing you can do!” said Hermione, looking 
stricken. “The dementors will catch Black and he’ll go 
back to Azkaban and — and serve him right!” 



Page | 237 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“You heard what Fudge said. Black isn’t affected by 
Azkaban like normal people are. It’s not a 
punishment for him like it is for the others.” 

“So what are you saying?” said Ron, looking very 
tense. “You want to — to kill Black or something?” 

“Don’t be silly,” said Hermione in a panicky voice. 
“Harry doesn’t want to kill anyone, do you, Harry?” 

Again, Harry didn’t answer. He didn’t know what he 
wanted to do. All he knew was that the idea of doing 
nothing, while Black was at liberty, was almost more 
than he could stand. 

“Malfoy knows,” he said abruptly. “Remember what 
he said to me in Potions? ‘If it was me, I’d hunt him 
down myself. ... I’d want revenge.’ ” 

“You’re going to take Malfoy ’s advice instead of ours?” 
said Ron furiously. “Listen ... you know what 
Pettigrew’s mother got back after Black had finished 
with him? Dad told me — the Order of Merlin, First 
Class, and Pettigrew’s finger in a box. That was the 
biggest bit of him they could find. Black’s a madman, 
Harry, and he’s dangerous — ” 

“Malfoy’s dad must have told him,” said Harry, 
ignoring Ron. “He was right in Voldemort’s inner 
circle — ” 

“ Say You-Knotu-Who, will you?” interjected Ron 
angrily. 

“ — so obviously, the Malfoys knew Black was working 
for Voldemort — ” 

“ — and Malfoy’d love to see you blown into about a 
million pieces, like Pettigrew! Get a grip. Malfoy’s just 

Page | 238 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




hoping you 11 get yourself killed before he has to play 
you at Quidditch.” 

“Harry, please,” said Hermione, her eyes now shining 
with tears, “please be sensible. Black did a terrible, 
terrible thing, but d-don’t put yourself in danger, it’s 
what Black wants. ... Oh, Harry, you’d be playing 
right into Black’s hands if you went looking for him. 
Your mum and dad wouldn’t want you to get hurt, 
would they? They’d never want you to go looking for 
Black!” 

“I’ll never know what they’d have wanted, because 
thanks to Black, I’ve never spoken to them,” said 
Harry shortly. 

There was a silence in which Crookshanks stretched 
luxuriously, flexing his claws. Ron’s pocket quivered. 

“Look,” said Ron, obviously casting around for a 
change of subject, “it’s the holidays! It’s nearly 
Christmas! Let’s — let’s go down and see Hagrid. We 
haven’t visited him for ages!” 

“No!” said Hermione quickly. “Harry isn’t supposed to 
leave the castle, Ron — ” 

“Yeah, let’s go,” said Harry, sitting up, “and I can ask 
him how come he never mentioned Black when he 
told me all about my parents!” 

Further discussion of Sirius Black plainly wasn’t 
what Ron had had in mind. 

“Or we could have a game of chess,” he said hastily, 
“or Gobstones. Percy left a set — ” 

“No, let’s visit Hagrid,” said Harry firmly. 



Page | 239 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




So they got their cloaks from their dormitories and set 
off through the portrait hole (“Stand and fight, you 
yellow-bellied mongrels!”), down through the empty 
castle and out through the oak front doors. 

They made their way slowly down the lawn, making a 
shallow trench in the glittering, powdery snow, their 
socks and the hems of their cloaks soaked and 
freezing. The Forbidden Forest looked as though it 
had been enchanted, each tree smattered with silver, 
and Hagrid’s cabin looked like an iced cake. 

Ron knocked, but there was no answer. 

“He’s not out, is he?” said Hermione, who was 
shivering under her cloak. 

Ron had his ear to the door. 

“There’s a weird noise,” he said. “Listen — is that 
Fang?” 

Harry and Hermione put their ears to the door too. 
From inside the cabin came a series of low, throbbing 
moans. 

“Think we’d better go and get someone?” said Ron 
nervously. 

“Hagrid!” called Harry, thumping the door. “Hagrid, 
are you in there?” 

There was a sound of heavy footsteps, then the door 
creaked open. Hagrid stood there with his eyes red 
and swollen, tears splashing down the front of his 
leather vest. 

“Yeh’ve heard?” he bellowed, and he flung himself 
onto Harry’s neck. 

Page | 240 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid being at least twice the size of a normal man, 
this was no laughing matter. Harry, about to collapse 
under Hagrid’s weight, was rescued by Ron and 
Hermione, who each seized Hagrid under an arm and 
heaved him back into the cabin. Hagrid allowed 
himself to be steered into a chair and slumped over 
the table, sobbing uncontrollably, his face glazed with 
tears that dripped down into his tangled beard. 

“Hagrid, what is it?” said Hermione, aghast. 

Harry spotted an official-looking letter lying open on 
the table. 

“What’s this, Hagrid?” 

Hagrid’s sobs redoubled, but he shoved the letter 
toward Harry, who picked it up and read aloud: 

Dear Mr. Hagrid, 

Further to our inquiry into the attack by a hippogriff on 
a student in your class, we have accepted the 
assurances of Professor Dumbledore that you bear no 
responsibility for the regrettable incident. 

“Well, that’s okay then, Hagrid!” said Ron, clapping 
Hagrid on the shoulder. But Hagrid continued to sob, 
and waved one of his gigantic hands, inviting Harry to 
read on. 

However, we must register our concern about the 
hippogriff in question. We have decided to uphold the 
official complaint of Mr. Lucius Malfoy, and this matter 
will therefore be taken to the Committee for the 
Disposal of Dangerous Creatures. The hearing will take 
place on April 20th, and we ask you to present 
yourself and your hippogriff at the Committee’s offices 



Page | 241 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




in London on that date. In the meantime, the hippogriff 
should be kept tethered and isolated. 

Yours in fellowship ... 

There followed a list of the school governors. 

“Oh,” said Ron. “But you said Buckbeak isn’t a bad 
hippogriff, Hagrid. I bet he’ll get off — ” 

“Yeh don’ know them gargoyles at the Committee fer 
the Disposal o’ Dangerous Creatures!” choked Hagrid, 
wiping his eyes on his sleeve. “They’ve got it in fer 
interestin’ creatures!” 

A sudden sound from the corner of Hagrid ’s cabin 
made Harry, Ron, and Hermione whip around. 
Buckbeak the hippogriff was lying in the corner, 
chomping on something that was oozing blood all over 
the floor. 

“I couldn’ leave him tied up out there in the snow!” 
choked Hagrid. “All on his own! At Christmas.” 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at one another. 

They had never seen eye to eye with Hagrid about 
what he called “interesting creatures” and other 
people called “terrifying monsters.” On the other 
hand, there didn’t seem to be any particular harm in 
Buckbeak. In fact, by Hagrid’s usual standards, he 
was positively cute. 

“You’ll have to put up a good strong defense, Hagrid,” 
said Hermione, sitting down and laying a hand on 
Hagrid’s massive forearm. “I’m sure you can prove 
Buckbeak is safe.” 



Page | 242 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Won’t make no difference!” sobbed Hagrid. “Them 
Disposal devils, they’re all in Lucius Malfoy’s pocket! 
Scared o’ him! An’ if I lose the case, Buckbeak — ” 

Hagrid drew his finger swiftly across his throat, then 
gave a great wail and lurched forward, his face in his 
arms. 

“What about Dumbledore, Hagrid?” said Harry. 

“He’s done more’n enough fer me already,” groaned 
Hagrid. “Got enough on his plate what with keepin’ 
them dementors outta the castle, an’ Sirius Black 
lurkin’ around — ” 

Ron and Hermione looked quickly at Harry, as though 
expecting him to start berating Hagrid for not telling 
him the truth about Black. But Harry couldn’t bring 
himself to do it, not now that he saw Hagrid so 
miserable and scared. 

“Listen, Hagrid,” he said, “you can’t give up. 
Hermione’s right, you just need a good defense. You 
can call us as witnesses — ” 

“I’m sure I’ve read about a case of hippogriff-baiting,” 
said Hermione thoughtfully, “where the hippogriff got 
off. I’ll look it up for you, Hagrid, and see exactly what 
happened.” 

Hagrid howled still more loudly. Harry and Hermione 
looked at Ron to help them. 

“Er — shall I make a cup of tea?” said Ron. 

Harry stared at him. 

“It’s what my mum does whenever someone’s upset,” 
Ron muttered, shrugging. 

Page | 243 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




At last, after many more assurances of help, with a 
steaming mug of tea in front of him, Hagrid blew his 
nose on a handkerchief the size of a tablecloth and 
said, “Yer right. I can’ afford to go ter pieces. Gotta 
pull meself together. ...” 

Fang the boarhound came timidly out from under the 
table and laid his head on Hagrid ’s knee. 

“I’ve not bin meself lately,” said Hagrid, stroking Fang 
with one hand and mopping his face with the other. 
“Worried abou’ Buckbeak, an’ no one likin’ me classes 



“We do like them!” lied Hermione at once. 

“Yeah, they’re great!” said Ron, crossing his fingers 
under the table. “Er — how are the flobberworms?” 

“Dead,” said Hagrid gloomily. “Too much lettuce.” 

“Oh no!” said Ron, his lip twitching. 

“An’ them dementors make me feel ruddy terrible an’ 
all,” said Hagrid, with a sudden shudder. “Gotta walk 
past ’em ev’ry time I want a drink in the Three 
Broomsticks. ’S like bein’ back in Azkaban — ” 

He fell silent, gulping his tea. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione watched him breathlessly. They had never 
heard Hagrid talk about his brief spell in Azkaban 
before. After a pause, Hermione said timidly, “Is it 
awful in there, Hagrid?” 

“Yeh’ve no idea,” said Hagrid quietly. “Never bin 
anywhere like it. Thought I was goin’ mad. Kep’ goin’ 
over horrible stuff in me mind . . . the day I got 
expelled from Hogwarts . . . day me dad died . . . day I 
had ter let Norbert go. ...” 

Page | 244 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




His eyes filled with tears. Norbert was the baby 
dragon Hagrid had once won in a game of cards. 



“Yeh can’ really remember who yeh are after a while. 
An’ yeh can’ see the point o’ livin’ at all. I used ter 
hope I’d jus’ die in me sleep. ... When they let me out, 
it was like bein’ born again, ev’rythin’ came floodin’ 
back, it was the bes’ feelin’ in the world. Mind, the 
dementors weren’t keen on lettin’ me go.” 

“But you were innocent!” said Hermione. 

Hagrid snorted. 

“Think that matters to them? They don’ care. Long as 
they’ve got a couple o’ hundred humans stuck there 
with ’em, so they can leech all the happiness out of 
’em, they don’ give a damn who’s guilty an’ who’s 
not.” 

Hagrid went quiet for a moment, staring into his tea. 
Then he said quietly, “Thought o’ jus’ letting 
Buckbeak go ... tryin’ ter make him fly away ... but 
how d’yeh explain ter a hippogriff it’s gotta go inter 
hidin’? An’ — an’ I’m scared o’ breakin’ the law. ...” He 
looked up at them, tears leaking down his face again. 
“I don’ ever want ter go back ter Azkaban.” 

The trip to Hagrid’s, though far from fun, had 
nevertheless had the effect Ron and Hermione had 
hoped. Though Harry had by no means forgotten 
about Black, he couldn’t brood constantly on revenge 
if he wanted to help Hagrid win his case against the 
Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures. 
He, Ron, and Hermione went to the library the next 
day and returned to the empty common room laden 
with books that might help prepare a defense for 
Buckbeak. The three of them sat in front of the 
roaring fire, slowly turning the pages of dusty 
Page | 245 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




volumes about famous cases of marauding beasts, 
speaking occasionally when they ran across 
something relevant. 

“Here’s something ... there was a case in 1722 ... but 
the hippogriff was convicted — ugh, look what they 
did to it, that’s disgusting — ” 

“This might help, look — a manticore savaged 
someone in 1296, and they let the manticore off — oh 
— no, that was only because everyone was too scared 
to go near it. ...” 

Meanwhile, in the rest of the castle, the usual 
magnificent Christmas decorations had been put up, 
despite the fact that hardly any of the students 
remained to enjoy them. Thick streamers of holly and 
mistletoe were strung along the corridors, mysterious 
lights shone from inside every suit of armor, and the 
Great Hall was filled with its usual twelve Christmas 
trees, glittering with golden stars. A powerful and 
delicious smell of cooking pervaded the corridors, and 
by Christmas Eve, it had grown so strong that even 
Scabbers poked his nose out of the shelter of Ron’s 
pocket to sniff hopefully at the air. 

On Christmas morning, Harry was woken by Ron 
throwing his pillow at him. 

“Oy! Presents!” 

Harry reached for his glasses and put them on, 
squinting through the semi-darkness to the foot of his 
bed, where a small heap of parcels had appeared. Ron 
was already ripping the paper off his own presents. 

“Another sweater from Mum . . . maroon again . . . see if 
you’ve got one.” 



Page | 246 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry had. Mrs. Weasley had sent him a scarlet 
sweater with the Gryffindor lion knitted on the front, 
also a dozen home-baked mince pies, some Christmas 
cake, and a box of nut brittle. As he moved all these 
things aside, he saw a long, thin package lying 
underneath. 

“What’s that?” said Ron, looking over, a freshly 
unwrapped pair of maroon socks in his hand. 

“Dunno ...” 

Harry ripped the parcel open and gasped as a 
magnificent, gleaming broomstick rolled out onto his 
bedspread. Ron dropped his socks and jumped off his 
bed for a closer look. 

“I don’t believe it,” he said hoarsely. 

It was a Firebolt, identical to the dream broom Harry 
had gone to see every day in Diagon Alley. Its handle 
glittered as he picked it up. He could feel it vibrating 
and let go; it hung in midair, unsupported, at exactly 
the right height for him to mount it. His eyes moved 
from the golden registration number at the top of the 
handle, right down to the perfectly smooth, 
streamlined birch twigs that made up the tail. 

“Who sent it to you?” said Ron in a hushed voice. 

“Look and see if there’s a card,” said Harry. 

Ron ripped apart the Firebolt’s wrappings. 

“Nothing! Blimey, who’d spend that much on you?” 

“Well,” said Harry, feeling stunned, “I’m betting it 
wasn’t the Dursleys.” 



Page | 247 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“I bet it was Dumbledore,” said Ron, now walking 
around and around the Firebolt, taking in every 
glorious inch. “He sent you the Invisibility Cloak 
anonymously. ...” 

“That was my dad’s, though,” said Harry. 
“Dumbledore was just passing it on to me. He 
wouldn’t spend hundreds of Galleons on me. He can’t 
go giving students stuff like this — ” 

“That’s why he wouldn’t say it was from him!” said 
Ron. “In case some git like Malfoy said it was 
favoritism. Hey, Harry” — Ron gave a great whoop of 
laughter — “Malfoyl Wait till he sees you on this! He’ll 
be sick as a pig! This is an international standard 
broom, this is!” 

“I can’t believe this,” Harry muttered, running a hand 
along the Firebolt, while Ron sank onto Harry’s bed, 
laughing his head off at the thought of Malfoy. “ Who 
— ?” 

“I know,” said Ron, controlling himself, “I know who it 
could’ve been — Lupin!” 

“What?” said Harry, now starting to laugh himself. 
“Lupin? Listen, if he had this much gold, he’d be able 
to buy himself some new robes.” 

“Yeah, but he likes you,” said Ron. “And he was away 
when your Nimbus got smashed, and he might’ve 
heard about it and decided to visit Diagon Alley and 
get this for you — ” 

“What d’you mean, he was away?” said Harry. “He 
was ill when I was playing in that match.” 



Page | 248 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, he wasn’t in the hospital wing,” said Ron. “I 
was there, cleaning out the bedpans on that detention 
from Snape, remember?” 

Harry frowned at Ron. 

“I can’t see Lupin affording something like this.” 

“What ’re you two laughing about?” 

Hermione had just come in, wearing her dressing 
gown and carrying Crookshanks, who was looking 
very grumpy, with a string of tinsel tied around his 
neck. 

“Don’t bring him in here!” said Ron, hurriedly 
snatching Scabbers from the depths of his bed and 
stowing him in his pajama pocket. But Hermione 
wasn’t listening. She dropped Crookshanks onto 
Seamus’s empty bed and stared, open-mouthed, at 
the Firebolt. 

“Oh, Harry\ Who sent you that?” 

“No idea,” said Harry. “There wasn’t a card or 
anything with it.” 

To his great surprise, Hermione did not appear either 
excited or intrigued by the news. On the contrary, her 
face fell, and she bit her lip. 

“What’s the matter with you?” said Ron. 

“I don’t know,” said Hermione slowly, “but it’s a bit 
odd, isn’t it? I mean, this is supposed to be quite a 
good broom, isn’t it?” 

Ron sighed exasperatedly. 



Page | 249 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s the best broom there is, Hermione,” he said. 

“So it must’ve been really expensive. ...” 

“Probably cost more than all the Slytherins’ brooms 
put together,” said Ron happily. 

“Well ... who’d send Harry something as expensive as 
that, and not even tell him they’d sent it?” said 
Hermione. 

“Who cares?” said Ron impatiently. “Listen, Harry, 
can I have a go on it? Can I?” 

“I don’t think anyone should ride that broom just yet!” 
said Hermione shrilly. 

Harry and Ron looked at her. 

“What d’you think Harry’s going to do with it — sweep 
the floor?” said Ron. 

But before Hermione could answer, Crookshanks 
sprang from Seamus’s bed, right at Ron’s chest. 

“GET — HIM — OUT — OF — HERE!” Ron bellowed 
as Crookshanks ’s claws ripped his pajamas and 
Scabbers attempted a wild escape over his shoulder. 
Ron seized Scabbers by the tail and aimed a 
misjudged kick at Crookshanks that hit the trunk at 
the end of Harry’s bed, knocking it over and causing 
Ron to hop up and down, howling with pain. 

Crookshanks ’s fur suddenly stood on end. A shrill, 
tinny whistling was filling the room. The Pocket 
Sneakoscope had become dislodged from Uncle 
Vernon’s old socks and was whirling and gleaming on 
the floor. 



Page | 250 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“I forgot about that!” Harry said, bending down and 
picking up the Sneakoscope. “I never wear those 
socks if I can help it. ...” 

The Sneakoscope whirled and whistled in his palm. 
Crookshanks was hissing and spitting at it. 

“You’d better take that cat out of here, Hermione,” 
said Ron furiously, sitting on Harry’s bed nursing his 
toe. “Can’t you shut that thing up?” he added to 
Harry as Hermione strode out of the room, 
Crookshanks ’s yellow eyes still fixed maliciously on 
Ron. 

Harry stuffed the Sneakoscope back inside the socks 
and threw it back into his trunk. All that could be 
heard now were Ron’s stifled moans of pain and rage. 
Scabbers was huddled in Ron’s hands. It had been a 
while since Harry had seen him out of Ron’s pocket, 
and he was unpleasantly surprised to see that 
Scabbers, once so fat, was now very skinny; patches 
of fur seemed to have fallen out too. 

“He’s not looking too good, is he?” Harry said. 

“It’s stress!” said Ron. “He’d be fine if that big stupid 
furball left him alone!” 

But Harry, remembering what the woman at the 
Magical Menagerie had said about rats living only 
three years, couldn’t help feeling that unless Scabbers 
had powers he had never revealed, he was reaching 
the end of his life. And despite Ron’s frequent 
complaints that Scabbers was both boring and 
useless, he was sure Ron would be very miserable if 
Scabbers died. 

Christmas spirit was definitely thin on the ground in 
the Gryffindor common room that morning. Hermione 

Page | 251 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




had shut Crookshanks in her dormitory, but was 
furious with Ron for trying to kick him; Ron was still 
fuming about Crookshanks ’s fresh attempt to eat 
Scabbers. Harry gave up trying to make them talk to 
each other and devoted himself to examining the 
Firebolt, which he had brought down to the common 
room with him. For some reason this seemed to 
annoy Hermione as well; she didn’t say anything, but 
she kept looking darkly at the broom as though it too 
had been criticizing her cat. 

At lunchtime they went down to the Great Hall, to 
find that the House tables had been moved against 
the walls again, and that a single table, set for twelve, 
stood in the middle of the room. Professors 
Dumbledore, McGonagall, Snape, Sprout, and 
Flitwick were there, along with Filch, the caretaker, 
who had taken off his usual brown coat and was 
wearing a very old and rather moldy-looking tailcoat. 
There were only three other students, two extremely 
nervous-looking first years and a sullen-faced 
Slytherin fifth year. 

“Merry Christmas!” said Dumbledore as Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione approached the table. “As there are so 
few of us, it seemed foolish to use the House tables. 

... Sit down, sit down!” 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione sat down side by side at 
the end of the table. 

“Crackers!” said Dumbledore enthusiastically, offering 
the end of a large silver noisemaker to Snape, who 
took it reluctantly and tugged. With a bang like a 
gunshot, the cracker flew apart to reveal a large, 
pointed witch’s hat topped with a stuffed vulture. 

Harry, remembering the boggart, caught Ron’s eye 
and they both grinned; Snape ’s mouth thinned and 

Page | 252 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




he pushed the hat toward Dumbledore, who swapped 
it for his wizard’s hat at once. 



“Dig in!” he advised the table, beaming around. 

As Harry was helping himself to roast potatoes, the 
doors of the Great Hall opened again. It was Professor 
Trelawney, gliding toward them as though on wheels. 
She had put on a green sequined dress in honor of 
the occasion, making her look more than ever like a 
glittering, oversized dragonfly. 

“Sibyll, this is a pleasant surprise!” said Dumbledore, 
standing up. 

“I have been crystal gazing, Headmaster,” said 
Professor Trelawney in her mistiest, most faraway 
voice, “and to my astonishment, I saw myself 
abandoning my solitary luncheon and coming to join 
you. Who am I to refuse the promptings of fate? I at 
once hastened from my tower, and I do beg you to 
forgive my lateness. ...” 

“Certainly, certainly,” said Dumbledore, his eyes 
twinkling. “Let me draw you up a chair — ” 

And he did indeed draw a chair in midair with his 
wand, which revolved for a few seconds before falling 
with a thud between Professors Snape and 
McGonagall. Professor Trelawney, however, did not sit 
down; her enormous eyes had been roving around the 
table, and she suddenly uttered a kind of soft scream. 

“I dare not, Headmaster! If I join the table, we shall be 
thirteen! Nothing could be more unlucky! Never forget 
that when thirteen dine together, the first to rise will 
be the first to die!” 



Page | 253 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Well risk it, Sibyll,” said Professor McGonagall 
impatiently. “Do sit down, the turkey’s getting stone 
cold.” 



Professor Trelawney hesitated, then lowered herself 
into the empty chair, eyes shut and mouth clenched 
tight, as though expecting a thunderbolt to hit the 
table. Professor McGonagall poked a large spoon into 
the nearest tureen. 

“Tripe, Sibyll?” 

Professor Trelawney ignored her. Eyes open again, 
she looked around once more and said, “But where is 
dear Professor Lupin?” 

“I’m afraid the poor fellow is ill again,” said 
Dumbledore, indicating that everybody should start 
serving themselves. “Most unfortunate that it should 
happen on Christmas Day.” 

“But surely you already knew that, Sibyll?” said 
Professor McGonagall, her eyebrows raised. 

Professor Trelawney gave Professor McGonagall a very 
cold look. 

“Certainly I knew, Minerva,” she said quietly. “But 
one does not parade the fact that one is All-Knowing. 

I frequently act as though I am not possessed of the 
Inner Eye, so as not to make others nervous.” 

“That explains a great deal,” said Professor 
McGonagall tartly. 

Professor Trelawney’s voice suddenly became a good 
deal less misty. 



Page | 254 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“If you must know, Minerva, I have seen that poor 
Professor Lupin will not be with us for very long. He 
seems aware, himself, that his time is short. He 
positively fled when I offered to crystal gaze for him — 



“Imagine that,” said Professor McGonagall dryly. 

“I doubt,” said Dumbledore, in a cheerful but slightly 
raised voice, which put an end to Professor 
McGonagall and Professor Trelawney’s conversation, 
“that Professor Lupin is in any immediate danger. 
Severus, you’ve made the potion for him again?” 

“Yes, Headmaster,” said Snape. 

“Good,” said Dumbledore. “Then he should be up and 
about in no time. ... Derek, have you had any of these 
chipolatas? They’re excellent.” 

The first-year boy went furiously red on being 
addressed directly by Dumbledore, and took the 
platter of sausages with trembling hands. 

Professor Trelawney behaved almost normally until 
the very end of Christmas dinner, two hours later. 

Full to bursting with Christmas dinner and still 
wearing their party hats, Harry and Ron got up first 
from the table and she shrieked loudly. 

“My dears! Which of you left his seat first? Which?” 

“Dunno,” said Ron, looking uneasily at Harry. 

“I doubt it will make much difference,” said Professor 
McGonagall coldly, “unless a mad axe-man is waiting 
outside the doors to slaughter the first into the 
entrance hall.” 



Page | 255 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Even Ron laughed. Professor Trelawney looked highly 
affronted. 

“Coming?” Harry said to Hermione. 

“No,” Hermione muttered, “I want a quick word with 
Professor McGonagall.” 

“Probably trying to see if she can take any more 
classes,” yawned Ron as they made their way into the 
entrance hall, which was completely devoid of mad 
axe-men. 

When they reached the portrait hole, they found Sir 
Cadogan enjoying a Christmas party with a couple of 
monks, several previous headmasters of Hogwarts, 
and his fat pony. He pushed up his visor and toasted 
them with a flagon of mead. 

“Merry — hie — Christmas! Password?” 

“Scurvy cur,” said Ron. 

“And the same to you, sir!” roared Sir Cadogan as the 
painting swung forward to admit them. 

Harry went straight up to the dormitory, collected the 
Firebolt and the Broomstick Servicing Kit Hermione 
had given him for his birthday, brought them 
downstairs, and tried to find something to do to the 
Firebolt; however, there were no bent twigs to clip, 
and the handle was so shiny already it seemed 
pointless to polish it. He and Ron simply sat admiring 
it from every angle until the portrait hole opened, and 
Hermione came in, accompanied by Professor 
McGonagall. 

Though Professor McGonagall was head of Gryffindor 
House, Harry had seen her in the common room only 

Page | 256 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




once before, and that had been to make a very grave 
announcement. He and Ron stared at her, both 
holding the Firebolt. Hermione walked around them, 
sat down, picked up the nearest book, and hid her 
face behind it. 

“So that’s it, is it?” said Professor McGonagall beadily, 
walking over to the fireside and staring at the 
Firebolt. “Miss Granger has just informed me that you 
have been sent a broomstick, Potter.” 

Harry and Ron looked around at Hermione. They 
could see her forehead reddening over the top of her 
book, which was upside down. 

“May I?” said Professor McGonagall, but she didn’t 
wait for an answer before pulling the Firebolt out of 
their hands. She examined it carefully from handle to 
twig-ends. “Hmm. And there was no note at all, 

Potter? No card? No message of any kind?” 

“No,” said Harry blankly. 

“I see ... ,” said Professor McGonagall. “Well, I’m 
afraid I will have to take this, Potter.” 

“W — what?” said Harry, scrambling to his feet. 
“Why?” 

“It will need to be checked for jinxes,” said Professor 
McGonagall. “Of course, I’m no expert, but I daresay 
Madam Hooch and Professor Flitwick will strip it 
down — ” 

“Strip it down?” repeated Ron, as though Professor 
McGonagall was mad. 



Page | 257 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“It shouldn’t take more than a few weeks,” said 
Professor McGonagall. “You will have it back if we are 
sure it is jinx-free.” 

“There’s nothing wrong with it!” said Harry, his voice 
shaking slightly. “Honestly, Professor — ” 

“You can’t know that, Potter,” said Professor 
McGonagall, quite kindly, “not until you’ve flown it, at 
any rate, and I’m afraid that is out of the question 
until we are certain that it has not been tampered 
with. I shall keep you informed.” 

Professor McGonagall turned on her heel and carried 
the Firebolt out of the portrait hole, which closed 
behind her. Harry stood staring after her, the tin of 
High-Finish Polish still clutched in his hands. Ron, 
however, rounded on Hermione. 

“What did you go running to McGonagall for?” 

Hermione threw her book aside. She was still pink in 
the face, but stood up and faced Ron defiantly. 

“Because I thought — and Professor McGonagall 
agrees with me — that that broom was probably sent 
to Harry by Sirius Black!” 



Page | 258 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 





THE PATRONUS 

Harry knew that Hermione had meant well, but that 
didn’t stop him from being angry with her. He had 
been the owner of the best broom in the world for a 
few short hours, and now, because of her 
interference, he didn’t know whether he would ever 
see it again. He was positive that there was nothing 
wrong with the Firebolt now, but what sort of state 
would it be in once it had been subjected to all sorts 
of anti-jinx tests? 

Ron was furious with Hermione too. As far as he was 
concerned, the stripping-down of a brand-new 
Firebolt was nothing less than criminal damage. 
Hermione, who remained convinced that she had 
acted for the best, started avoiding the common room. 
Harry and Ron supposed she had taken refuge in the 
library and didn’t try to persuade her to come back. 
All in all, they were glad when the rest of the school 
returned shortly after New Year, and Gryffindor Tower 
became crowded and noisy again. 



Page | 259 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



Wood sought Harry out on the night before term 
started. 



“Had a good Christmas?” he said, and then, without 
waiting for an answer, he sat down, lowered his voice, 
and said, “I’ve been doing some thinking over 
Christmas, Harry. After the last match, you know. If 
the dementors come to the next one ... I mean . . . we 
can’t afford you to — well — ” 

Wood broke off, looking awkward. 

“I’m working on it,” said Harry quickly. “Professor 
Lupin said he’d train me to ward off the dementors. 
We should be starting this week. He said he’d have 
time after Christmas.” 

“Ah,” said Wood, his expression clearing. “Well, in 
that case — I really didn’t want to lose you as Seeker, 
Harry. And have you ordered a new broom yet?” 

“No,” said Harry. 

“What! You’d better get a move on, you know — you 
can’t ride that Shooting Star against Ravenclaw!” 

“He got a Firebolt for Christmas,” said Ron. 

“A Firebolt? No! Seriously? A — a real Firebolt?” 

“Don’t get excited, Oliver,” said Harry gloomily. “I 
haven’t got it anymore. It was confiscated.” And he 
explained all about how the Firebolt was now being 
checked for jinxes. 

“Jinxed? How could it be jinxed?” 



Page | 260 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Sirius Black,” Harry said wearily. “He’s supposed to 
be after me. So McGonagall reckons he might have 
sent it.” 

Waving aside the information that a famous murderer 
was after his Seeker, Wood said, “But Black couldn’t 
have bought a Firebolt! He’s on the run! The whole 
country’s on the lookout for him! How could he just 
walk into Quality Quidditch Supplies and buy a 
broomstick?” 

“I know,” said Harry, “but McGonagall still wants to 
strip it down — ” 

Wood went pale. 

“I’ll go and talk to her, Harry,” he promised. “I’ll make 
her see reason. ... A Firebolt ... a real Firebolt, on our 
team . . . She wants Gryffindor to win as much as we 
do. ... I’ll make her see sense. A Firebolt ...” 

Classes started again the next day. The last thing 
anyone felt like doing was spending two hours on the 
grounds on a raw January morning, but Hagrid had 
provided a bonfire full of salamanders for their 
enjoyment, and they spent an unusually good lesson 
collecting dry wood and leaves to keep the fire blazing 
while the flame-loving lizards scampered up and 
down the crumbling, white-hot logs. The first 
Divination lesson of the new term was much less fun; 
Professor Trelawney was now teaching them 
palmistry, and she lost no time in informing Harry 
that he had the shortest life line she had ever seen. 

It was Defense Against the Dark Arts that Harry was 
keen to get to; after his conversation with Wood, he 
wanted to get started on his anti-dementor lessons as 
soon as possible. 



Page | 261 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Ah yes,” said Lupin, when Harry reminded him of his 
promise at the end of class. “Let me see ... how about 
eight o’clock on Thursday evening? The History of 
Magic classroom should be large enough. ... I’ll have 
to think carefully about how we’re going to do this. ... 
We can’t bring a real dementor into the castle to 
practice on. ...” 

“Still looks ill, doesn’t he?” said Ron as they walked 
down the corridor, heading to dinner. “What d’you 
reckon ’s the matter with him?” 

There was a loud and impatient “tuh” from behind 
them. It was Hermione, who had been sitting at the 
feet of a suit of armor, repacking her bag, which was 
so full of books it wouldn’t close. 

“And what are you tutting at us for?” said Ron 
irritably. 

“Nothing,” said Hermione in a lofty voice, heaving her 
bag back over her shoulder. 

“Yes, you were,” said Ron. “I said I wonder what’s 
wrong with Lupin, and you — ” 

“Well, isn’t it obvious?” said Hermione, with a look of 
maddening superiority. 

“If you don’t want to tell us, don’t,” snapped Ron. 

“Fine,” said Hermione haughtily, and she marched off. 

“She doesn’t know,” said Ron, staring resentfully after 
Hermione. “She’s just trying to get us to talk to her 
again.” 

At eight o’clock on Thursday evening, Harry left 
Gryffindor Tower for the History of Magic classroom. 

Page | 262 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




It was dark and empty when he arrived, but he lit the 
lamps with his wand and had waited only five 
minutes when Professor Lupin turned up, carrying a 
large packing case, which he heaved onto Professor 
Binns’ desk. 

“What’s that?” said Harry. 

“Another boggart,” said Lupin, stripping off his cloak. 
“I’ve been combing the castle ever since Tuesday, and 
very luckily, I found this one lurking inside Mr. Filch’s 
filing cabinet. It’s the nearest we’ll get to a real 
dementor. The boggart will turn into a dementor when 
he sees you, so we’ll be able to practice on him. I can 
store him in my office when we’re not using him; 
there’s a cupboard under my desk he’ll like.” 

“Okay,” said Harry, trying to sound as though he 
wasn’t apprehensive at all and merely glad that Lupin 
had found such a good substitute for a real dementor. 

“So ...” Professor Lupin had taken out his own wand, 
and indicated that Harry should do the same. “The 
spell I am going to try and teach you is highly 
advanced magic, Harry — well beyond Ordinary 
Wizarding Level. It is called the Patronus Charm.” 

“How does it work?” said Harry nervously. 

“Well, when it works correctly, it conjures up a 
Patronus,” said Lupin, “which is a kind of anti- 
dementor — a guardian that acts as a shield between 
you and the dementor.” 

Harry had a sudden vision of himself crouching 
behind a Hagrid-sized figure holding a large club. 
Professor Lupin continued, “The Patronus is a kind of 
positive force, a projection of the very things that the 
dementor feeds upon — hope, happiness, the desire 
Page | 263 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




to survive — but it cannot feel despair, as real 
humans can, so the dementors can’t hurt it. But I 
must warn you, Harry, that the charm might be too 
advanced for you. Many qualified wizards have 
difficulty with it.” 

“What does a Patronus look like?” said Harry 
curiously. 

“Each one is unique to the wizard who conjures it.” 
“And how do you conjure it?” 

“With an incantation, which will work only if you are 
concentrating, with all your might, on a single, very 
happy memory.” 

Harry cast his mind about for a happy memory. 
Certainly, nothing that had happened to him at the 
Dursleys’ was going to do. Finally, he settled on the 
moment when he had first ridden a broomstick. 

“Right,” he said, trying to recall as exactly as possible 
the wonderful, soaring sensation of his stomach. 

“The incantation is this — ” Lupin cleared his throat. 
“Expecto patronum).” 

“Expecto patronum,” Harry repeated under his breath, 
“expecto patronum.” 

“Concentrating hard on your happy memory?” 

“Oh — yeah — ” said Harry, quickly forcing his 
thoughts back to that first broom ride. “Expecto 
patrono — no, patronum — sorry — expecto patronum, 
expecto patronum — ” 



Page | 264 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Something whooshed suddenly out of the end of his 
wand; it looked like a wisp of silvery gas. 



“Did you see that?” said Harry excitedly. “Something 
happened!” 

“Very good,” said Lupin, smiling. “Right, then — ready 
to try it on a dementor?” 

“Yes,” Harry said, gripping his wand very tightly, and 
moving into the middle of the deserted classroom. He 
tried to keep his mind on flying, but something else 
kept intruding. . . . Any second now, he might hear his 
mother again . . . but he shouldn’t think that, or he 
would hear her again, and he didn’t want to ... or did 
he? 

Lupin grasped the lid of the packing case and pulled. 

A dementor rose slowly from the box, its hooded face 
turned toward Harry, one glistening, scabbed hand 
gripping its cloak. The lamps around the classroom 
flickered and went out. The dementor stepped from 
the box and started to sweep silently toward Harry, 
drawing a deep, rattling breath. A wave of piercing 
cold broke over him — 

“Expecto patronurrd” Harry yelled. “Expecto patronum). 
Expecto — ” 

But the classroom and the dementor were dissolving. 

. . . Harry was falling again through thick white fog, 
and his mother’s voice was louder than ever, echoing 
inside his head — “ Not Harry\ Not Harry\ Please — I’ll 
do anything — ” 

“Stand aside. Stand aside, girl\” 

“Harry!” 

Page | 265 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry jerked back to life. He was lying flat on his back 
on the floor. The classroom lamps were alight again. 
He didn’t have to ask what had happened. 

“Sorry,” he muttered, sitting up and feeling cold sweat 
trickling down behind his glasses. 

“Are you all right?” said Lupin. 

“Yes ...” Harry pulled himself up on one of the desks 
and leaned against it. 

“Here — ” Lupin handed him a Chocolate Frog. “Eat 
this before we try again. I didn’t expect you to do it 
your first time; in fact, I would have been astounded if 
you had.” 

“It’s getting worse,” Harry muttered, biting off the 
Frog’s head. “I could hear her louder that time — and 
him — Voldemort — ” 

Lupin looked paler than usual. 

“Harry, if you don’t want to continue, I will more than 
understand — ” 

“I do!” said Harry fiercely, stuffing the rest of the 
Chocolate Frog into his mouth. “I’ve got to! What if 
the dementors turn up at our match against 
Ravenclaw? I can’t afford to fall off again. If we lose 
this game we’ve lost the Quidditch Cup!” 

“All right then ... ,” said Lupin. “You might want to 
select another memory, a happy memory, I mean, to 
concentrate on. ... That one doesn’t seem to have 
been strong enough. ...” 

Harry thought hard and decided his feelings when 
Gryffindor had won the House Championship last 

Page | 266 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




year had definitely qualified as very happy. He 
gripped his wand tightly again and took up his 
position in the middle of the classroom. 

“Ready?” said Lupin, gripping the box lid. 

“Ready,” said Harry, trying hard to fill his head with 
happy thoughts about Gryffindor winning, and not 
dark thoughts about what was going to happen when 
the box opened. 

“Go!” said Lupin, pulling off the lid. The room went 
icily cold and dark once more. The dementor glided 
forward, drawing its breath; one rotting hand was 
extending toward Harry — 

“Expecto patronum).” Harry yelled. “Expecto patronuml 
Expecto pat — ” 

White fog obscured his senses . . . big, blurred shapes 
were moving around him ... then came a new voice, a 
man’s voice, shouting, panicking — 

“Lily, take Harry and go\ It’s him\ Go! Run\ I’ll hold him 

off~ 

The sounds of someone stumbling from a room — a 
door bursting open — a cackle of high-pitched 
laughter — 

“Harry! Harry ... wake up. ...” 

Lupin was tapping Harry hard on the face. This time 
it was a minute before Harry understood why he was 
lying on a dusty classroom floor. 

“I heard my dad,” Harry mumbled. “That’s the first 
time I’ve ever heard him — he tried to take on 



Page | 267 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Voldemort himself, to give my mum time to run for it. 



Harry suddenly realized that there were tears on his 
face mingling with the sweat. He bent his face as low 
as possible, wiping them off on his robes, pretending 
to do up his shoelace, so that Lupin wouldn’t see. 

“You heard James?” said Lupin in a strange voice. 

“Yeah ...” Face dry, Harry looked up. “Why — you 
didn’t know my dad, did you?” 

“I — I did, as a matter of fact,” said Lupin. “We were 
friends at Hogwarts. Listen, Harry — perhaps we 
should leave it here for tonight. This charm is 
ridiculously advanced. ... I shouldn’t have suggested 
putting you through this. ...” 

“No!” said Harry. He got up again. “I’ll have one more 
go! I’m not thinking of happy enough things, that’s 
what it is. ... Hang on. ...” 

He racked his brains. A really, really happy memory 
. . . one that he could turn into a good, strong 
Patronus ... 

The moment when he’d first found out he was a 
wizard, and would be leaving the Dursleys for 
Hogwarts! If that wasn’t a happy memory, he didn’t 
know what was. ... Concentrating very hard on how 
he had felt when he’d realized he’d be leaving Privet 
Drive, Harry got to his feet and faced the packing case 
once more. 

“Ready?” said Lupin, who looked as though he were 
doing this against his better judgment. 

“Concentrating hard? All right — go!” 



Page | 268 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




He pulled off the lid of the case for the third time, and 
the dementor rose out of it; the room fell cold and 
dark — 

“EXPECTO PATRONUM ” Harry bellowed. “ EXPECTO 
PATRONUM EXPECTO PATRONUM ” 

The screaming inside Harry’s head had started again 
— except this time, it sounded as though it were 
coming from a badly tuned radio — softer and louder 
and softer again — and he could still see the 
dementor — it had halted — and then a huge, silver 
shadow came bursting out of the end of Harry’s wand, 
to hover between him and the dementor, and though 
Harry’s legs felt like water, he was still on his feet — 
though for how much longer, he wasn’t sure — 

“ RiddikulusV’ roared Lupin, springing forward. 

There was a loud crack, and Harry’s cloudy Patronus 
vanished along with the dementor; he sank into a 
chair, feeling as exhausted as if he’d just run a mile, 
and felt his legs shaking. Out of the corner of his eye, 
he saw Professor Lupin forcing the boggart back into 
the packing case with his wand; it had turned into a 
silvery orb again. 

“Excellent!” Lupin said, striding over to where Harry 
sat. “Excellent, Harry! That was definitely a start!” 

“Can we have another go? Just one more go?” 

“Not now,” said Lupin firmly. “You’ve had enough for 
one night. Here — ” 

He handed Harry a large bar of Honeydukes’ best 
chocolate. 



Page | 269 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Eat the lot, or Madam Pomfrey will be after my blood. 
Same time next week?” 

“Okay,” said Harry. He took a bite of the chocolate 
and watched Lupin extinguishing the lamps that had 
rekindled with the disappearance of the dementor. A 
thought had just occurred to him. 

“Professor Lupin?” he said. “If you knew my dad, you 
must’ve known Sirius Black as well.” 

Lupin turned very quickly. 

“What gives you that idea?” he said sharply. 

“Nothing — I mean, I just knew they were friends at 
Hogwarts too. ...” 

Lupin’s face relaxed. 

“Yes, I knew him,” he said shortly. “Or I thought I did. 
You’d better be off, Harry, it’s getting late.” 

Harry left the classroom, walking along the corridor 
and around a corner, then took a detour behind a 
suit of armor and sank down on its plinth to finish 
his chocolate, wishing he hadn’t mentioned Black, as 
Lupin was obviously not keen on the subject. Then 
Harry’s thoughts wandered back to his mother and 
father. ... 

He felt drained and strangely empty, even though he 
was so full of chocolate. Terrible though it was to hear 
his parents’ last moments replayed inside his head, 
these were the only times Harry had heard their 
voices since he was a very small child. But he’d never 
be able to produce a proper Patronus if he half 
wanted to hear his parents again. ... 



Page | 270 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“They’re dead,” he told himself sternly. “They’re dead 
and listening to echoes of them won’t bring them 
back. You’d better get a grip on yourself if you want 
that Quidditch Cup.” 

He stood up, crammed the last bit of chocolate into 
his mouth, and headed back to Gryffindor Tower. 

Ravenclaw played Slytherin a week after the start of 
term. Slytherin won, though narrowly. According to 
Wood, this was good news for Gryffindor, who would 
take second place if they beat Ravenclaw too. He 
therefore increased the number of team practices to 
five a week. This meant that with Lupin’s anti- 
dementor classes, which in themselves were more 
draining than six Quidditch practices, Harry had just 
one night a week to do all his homework. Even so, he 
wasn’t showing the strain nearly as much as 
Hermione, whose immense workload finally seemed to 
be getting to her. Every night, without fail, Hermione 
was to be seen in a corner of the common room, 
several tables spread with books, Arithmancy charts, 
rune dictionaries, diagrams of Muggles lifting heavy 
objects, and file upon file of extensive notes; she 
barely spoke to anybody and snapped when she was 
interrupted. 

“How’s she doing it?” Ron muttered to Harry one 
evening as Harry sat finishing a nasty essay on 
Undetectable Poisons for Snape. Harry looked up. 
Hermione was barely visible behind a tottering pile of 
books. 

“Doing what?” 

“Getting to all her classes!” Ron said. “I heard her 
talking to Professor Vector, that Arithmancy witch, 
this morning. They were going on about yesterday’s 
lesson, but Hermione can’t’ve been there, because she 

Page | 271 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




was with us in Care of Magical Creatures! And Ernie 
McMillan told me she’s never missed a Muggle 
Studies class, but half of them are at the same time 
as Divination, and she’s never missed one of them 
either!” 

Harry didn’t have time to fathom the mystery of 
Hermione’s impossible schedule at the moment; he 
really needed to get on with Snape’s essay. Two 
seconds later, however, he was interrupted again, this 
time by Wood. 

“Bad news, Harry. I’ve just been to see Professor 
McGonagall about the Firebolt. She — er — got a bit 
shirty with me. Told me I’d got my priorities wrong. 
Seemed to think I cared more about winning the Cup 
than I do about you staying alive. Just because I told 
her I didn’t care if it threw you off, as long as you 
caught the Snitch first.” Wood shook his head in 
disbelief. “Honestly, the way she was yelling at me . . . 
you’d think I’d said something terrible. ... Then I 
asked her how much longer she was going to keep it. 
...” He screwed up his face and imitated Professor 
McGonagall’s severe voice. “ ‘As long as necessary, 
Wood’ ... I reckon it’s time you ordered a new broom, 
Harry. There’s an order form at the back of Which 
Broomstick ... you could get a Nimbus Two Thousand 
and One, like Malfoy’s got.” 

“I’m not buying anything Malfoy thinks is good,” said 
Harry flatly. 

January faded imperceptibly into February, with no 
change in the bitterly cold weather. The match 
against Ravenclaw was drawing nearer and nearer, 
but Harry still hadn’t ordered a new broom. He was 
now asking Professor McGonagall for news of the 
Firebolt after every Transfiguration lesson, Ron 



Page | 272 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




standing hopefully at his shoulder, Hermione rushing 
past with her face averted. 

“No, Potter, you can’t have it back yet,” Professor 
McGonagall told him the twelfth time this happened, 
before he’d even opened his mouth. “We’ve checked 
for most of the usual curses, but Professor Flitwick 
believes the broom might be carrying a Hurling Hex. I 
shall tell you once we’ve finished checking it. Now, 
please stop badgering me.” 

To make matters even worse, Harry’s anti-dementor 
lessons were not going nearly as well as he had 
hoped. Several sessions on, he was able to produce 
an indistinct, silvery shadow every time the boggart- 
dementor approached him, but his Patronus was too 
feeble to drive the dementor away. All it did was 
hover, like a semi-transparent cloud, draining Harry 
of energy as he fought to keep it there. Harry felt 
angry with himself, guilty about his secret desire to 
hear his parents’ voices again. 

“You’re expecting too much of yourself,” said 
Professor Lupin sternly in their fourth week of 
practice. “For a thirteen-year-old wizard, even an 
indistinct Patronus is a huge achievement. You aren’t 
passing out anymore, are you?” 

“I thought a Patronus would — charge the dementors 
down or something,” said Harry dispiritedly. “Make 
them disappear — ” 

“The true Patronus does do that,” said Lupin. “But 
you’ve achieved a great deal in a very short space of 
time. If the dementors put in an appearance at your 
next Quidditch match, you will be able to keep them 
at bay long enough to get back to the ground.” 



Page | 273 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“You said it’s harder if there are loads of them,” said 
Harry. 

“I have complete confidence in you,” said Lupin, 
smiling. “Here — you’ve earned a drink — something 
from the Three Broomsticks. You won’t have tried it 
before — ” 

He pulled two bottles out of his briefcase. 

“Butterbeer!” said Harry, without thinking. “Yeah, I 
like that stuff!” 

Lupin raised an eyebrow. 

“Oh — Ron and Hermione brought me some back 
from Hogsmeade,” Harry lied quickly. 

“I see,” said Lupin, though he still looked slightly 
suspicious. “Well — let’s drink to a Gryffindor victory 
against Ravenclaw! Not that I’m supposed to take 
sides, as a teacher ... ,” he added hastily. 

They drank the butterbeer in silence, until Harry 
voiced something he’d been wondering for a while. 

“What’s under a dementor’s hood?” 

Professor Lupin lowered his bottle thoughtfully. 

“Hmmm ... well, the only people who really know are 
in no condition to tell us. You see, the dementor 
lowers its hood only to use its last and worst 
weapon.” 

“What’s that?” 

“They call it the Dementor’s Kiss,” said Lupin, with a 
slightly twisted smile. “It’s what dementors do to 

Page | 274 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




those they wish to destroy utterly. I suppose there 
must be some kind of mouth under there, because 
they clamp their jaws upon the mouth of the victim 
and — and suck out his soul.” 

Harry accidentally spat out a bit of butterbeer. 

“What — they kill — ?” 

“Oh no,” said Lupin. “Much worse than that. You can 
exist without your soul, you know, as long as your 
brain and heart are still working. But you 11 have no 
sense of self anymore, no memory, no ... anything. 
There’s no chance at all of recovery. You’ll just — 
exist. As an empty shell. And your soul is gone forever 
... lost.” 

Lupin drank a little more butterbeer, then said, “It’s 
the fate that awaits Sirius Black. It was in the Daily 
Prophet this morning. The Ministry have given the 
dementors permission to perform it if they find him.” 

Harry sat stunned for a moment at the idea of 
someone having their soul sucked out through their 
mouth. But then he thought of Black. 

“He deserves it,” he said suddenly. 

“You think so?” said Lupin lightly. “Do you really 
think anyone deserves that?” 

“Yes,” said Harry defiantly. “For ... for some things ...” 

He would have liked to have told Lupin about the 
conversation he’d overheard about Black in the Three 
Broomsticks, about Black betraying his mother and 
father, but it would have involved revealing that he’d 
gone to Hogsmeade without permission, and he knew 
Lupin wouldn’t be very impressed by that. So he 
Page | 275 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




finished his butterbeer, thanked Lupin, and left the 
History of Magic classroom. 

Harry half wished that he hadn’t asked what was 
under a dementor’s hood, the answer had been so 
horrible, and he was so lost in unpleasant thoughts of 
what it would feel like to have your soul sucked out of 
you that he walked headlong into Professor 
McGonagall halfway up the stairs. 

“Do watch where you’re going, Potter!” 

“Sorry, Professor — ” 

“I’ve just been looking for you in the Gryffindor 
common room. Well, here it is, we’ve done everything 
we could think of, and there doesn’t seem to be 
anything wrong with it at all. You’ve got a very good 
friend somewhere, Potter. ...” 

Harry’s jaw dropped. She was holding out his 
Firebolt, and it looked as magnificent as ever. 

“I can have it back?” Harry said weakly. “Seriously?” 

“Seriously,” said Professor McGonagall, and she was 
actually smiling. “I daresay you’ll need to get the feel 
of it before Saturday’s match, won’t you? And Potter 
— do try and win, won’t you? Or we’ll be out of the 
running for the eighth year in a row, as Professor 
Snape was kind enough to remind me only last night. 



Speechless, Harry carried the Firebolt back upstairs 
toward Gryffindor Tower. As he turned a corner, he 
saw Ron dashing toward him, grinning from ear to 
ear. 



Page | 276 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“She gave it to you? Excellent! Listen, can I still have 
a go on it? Tomorrow?” 

“Yeah ... anything ... said Harry, his heart lighter 
than it had been in a month. “You know what — we 
should make up with Hermione. ... She was only 
trying to help. ...” 

“Yeah, all right,” said Ron. “She’s in the common 
room now — working, for a change — ” 

They turned into the corridor to Gryffindor Tower and 
saw Neville Longbottom, pleading with Sir Cadogan, 
who seemed to be refusing him entrance. 

“I wrote them down!” Neville was saying tearfully. 

“But I must’ve dropped them somewhere!” 

“A likely tale!” roared Sir Cadogan. Then, spotting 
Harry and Ron: “Good even, my fine young yeomen! 
Come clap this loon in irons. He is trying to force 
entry to the chambers within!” 

“Oh, shut up,” said Ron as he and Harry drew level 
with Neville. 

“I’ve lost the passwords!” Neville told them miserably. 
“I made him tell me what passwords he was going to 
use this week, because he keeps changing them, and 
now I don’t know what I’ve done with them!” 

“Oddsbodikins,” said Harry to Sir Cadogan, who 
looked extremely disappointed and reluctantly swung 
forward to let them into the common room. There was 
a sudden, excited murmur as every head turned and 
the next moment, Harry was surrounded by people 
exclaiming over his Firebolt. 

“Where ’d you get it, Harry?” 

Page | 277 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Will you let me have a go?” 

“Have you ridden it yet, Harry?” 

“Ravenclaw’ll have no chance, they’re all on 
Cleansweep Sevens!” 

“Can I just hold it, Harry?” 

After ten minutes or so, during which the Firebolt was 
passed around and admired from every angle, the 
crowd dispersed and Harry and Ron had a clear view 
of Hermione, the only person who hadn’t rushed over 
to them, bent over her work and carefully avoiding 
their eyes. Harry and Ron approached her table and 
at last, she looked up. 

“I got it back,” said Harry, grinning at her and holding 
up the Firebolt. 

“See, Hermione? There wasn’t anything wrong with 
it!” said Ron. 

“Well — there might have been!” said Hermione. “I 
mean, at least you know now that it’s safe!” 

“Yeah, I suppose so,” said Harry. “I’d better put it 
upstairs — ” 

“I’ll take it!” said Ron eagerly. “I’ve got to give 
Scabbers his rat tonic.” 

He took the Firebolt and, holding it as if it were made 
of glass, carried it away up the boys’ staircase. 

“Can I sit down, then?” Harry asked Hermione. 

“I suppose so,” said Hermione, moving a great stack 
of parchment off a chair. 

Page | 278 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry looked around at the cluttered table, at the 
long Arithmancy essay on which the ink was still 
glistening, at the even longer Muggle Studies essay 
(“Explain Why Muggles Need Electricity”) and at the 
rune translation Hermione was now poring over. 

“How are you getting through all this stuff?” Harry 
asked her. 

“Oh, well — you know — working hard,” said 
Hermione. Close-up, Harry saw that she looked 
almost as tired as Lupin. 

“Why don’t you just drop a couple of subjects?” Harry 
asked, watching her lifting books as she searched for 
her rune dictionary. 

“I couldn’t do that!” said Hermione, looking 
scandalized. 

“Arithmancy looks terrible,” said Harry, picking up a 
very complicated-looking number chart. 

“Oh no, it’s wonderful!” said Hermione earnestly. “It’s 
my favorite subject! It’s — ” 

But exactly what was wonderful about Arithmancy, 
Harry never found out. At that precise moment, a 
strangled yell echoed down the boys’ staircase. The 
whole common room fell silent, staring, petrified, at 
the entrance. Then came hurried footsteps, growing 
louder and louder — and then Ron came leaping into 
view, dragging with him a bedsheet. 

“LOOK!” he bellowed, striding over to Hermione’s 
table. “LOOK!” he yelled, shaking the sheets in her 
face. 

“Ron, what — ?” 

Page | 279 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“SCABBERS! LOOK! SCABBERS!” 



Hermione was leaning away from Ron, looking utterly 
bewildered. Harry looked down at the sheet Ron was 
holding. There was something red on it. Something 
that looked horribly like — 

“BLOOD!” Ron yelled into the stunned silence. “HE’S 
GONE! AND YOU KNOW WHAT WAS ON THE 
FLOOR?” 

“N — no,” said Hermione in a trembling voice. 

Ron threw something down onto Hermione ’s rune 
translation. Hermione and Harry leaned forward. 
Lying on top of the weird, spiky shapes were several 
long, ginger cat hairs. 



Page | 280 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 






GRYFFINDOR VERSUS RAVENCLAW 

It looked like the end of Ron and Hermione’s 
friendship. Each was so angry with the other that 
Harry couldn’t see how they’d ever make up. 

Ron was enraged that Hermione had never taken 
Crookshanks’s attempts to eat Scabbers seriously, 
hadn’t bothered to keep a close enough watch on him, 
and was still trying to pretend that Crookshanks was 
innocent by suggesting that Ron look for Scabbers 
under all the boys’ beds. Hermione, meanwhile, 
maintained fiercely that Ron had no proof that 
Crookshanks had eaten Scabbers, that the ginger 
hairs might have been there since Christmas, and 
that Ron had been prejudiced against her cat ever 
since Crookshanks had landed on Ron’s head in the 
Magical Menagerie. 

Personally, Harry was sure that Crookshanks had 
eaten Scabbers, and when he tried to point out to 
Hermione that the evidence all pointed that way, she 
lost her temper with Harry too. 



Page | 281 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



“Okay, side with Ron, I knew you would!” she said 
shrilly. “First the Firebolt, now Scabbers, everything’s 
my fault, isn’t it! Just leave me alone, Harry, I’ve got a 
lot of work to do!” 

Ron had taken the loss of his rat very hard indeed. 

“Come on, Ron, you were always saying how boring 
Scabbers was,” said Fred bracingly “And he’s been 
off-color for ages, he was wasting away. It was 
probably better for him to snuff it quickly — one 
swallow — he probably didn’t feel a thing.” 

“Fred\” said Ginny indignantly. 

“All he did was eat and sleep, Ron, you said it 
yourself,” said George. 

“He bit Goyle for us once!” Ron said miserably. 
“Remember, Harry?” 

“Yeah, that’s true,” said Harry. 

“His finest hour,” said Fred, unable to keep a straight 
face. “Let the scar on Goyle ’s finger stand as a lasting 
tribute to his memory. Oh, come on, Ron, get yourself 
down to Hogsmeade and buy a new rat, what’s the 
point of moaning?” 

In a last-ditch attempt to cheer Ron up, Harry 
persuaded him to come along to the Gryffindor team’s 
final practice before the Ravenclaw match, so that he 
could have a ride on the Firebolt after they’d finished. 
This did seem to take Ron’s mind off Scabbers for a 
moment (“Great! Can I try and shoot a few goals on 
it?”) so they set off for the Quidditch field together. 

Madam Hooch, who was still overseeing Gryffindor 
practices to keep an eye on Harry, was just as 

Page | 282 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




impressed with the Firebolt as everyone else had 
been. She took it in her hands before takeoff and gave 
them the benefit of her professional opinion. 

“Look at the balance on it! If the Nimbus series has a 
fault, it’s a slight list to the tail end — you often find 
they develop a drag after a few years. They’ve updated 
the handle too, a bit slimmer than the Cleansweeps, 
reminds me of the old Silver Arrows — a pity they’ve 
stopped making them. I learned to fly on one, and a 
very fine old broom it was too. ...” 

She continued in this vein for some time, until Wood 
said, “Er — Madam Hooch? Is it okay if Harry has the 
Firebolt back? We need to practice. ...” 

“Oh — right — here you are, then, Potter,” said 
Madam Hooch. “I’ll sit over here with Weasley ...” 

She and Ron left the field to sit in the stadium, and 
the Gryffindor team gathered around Wood for his 
final instructions for tomorrow’s match. 

“Harry, I’ve just found out who Ravenclaw is playing 
as Seeker. It’s Cho Chang. She’s a fourth year, and 
she’s pretty good. ... I really hoped she wouldn’t be fit, 
she’s had some problems with injuries. ...” Wood 
scowled his displeasure that Cho Chang had made a 
full recovery, then said, “On the other hand, she rides 
a Comet Two Sixty, which is going to look like a joke 
next to the Firebolt.” He gave Harry’s broom a look of 
fervent admiration, then said, “Okay, everyone, let’s 
go 



And at long last, Harry mounted his Firebolt, and 
kicked off from the ground. 

It was better than he’d ever dreamed. The Firebolt 
turned with the lightest touch; it seemed to obey his 

Page | 283 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




thoughts rather than his grip; it sped across the field 
at such speed that the stadium turned into a green- 
and-gray blur; Harry turned it so sharply that Alicia 
Spinnet screamed, then he went into a perfectly 
controlled dive, brushing the grassy field with his toes 
before rising thirty, forty, fifty feet into the air again — 

“Harry, I’m letting the Snitch out!” Wood called. 

Harry turned and raced a Bludger toward the goal 
posts; he outstripped it easily, saw the Snitch dart 
out from behind Wood, and within ten seconds had 
caught it tightly in his hand. 

The team cheered madly. Harry let the Snitch go 
again, gave it a minute’s head start, then tore after it, 
weaving in and out of the others; he spotted it lurking 
near Katie Bell’s knee, looped her easily, and caught 
it again. 

It was the best practice ever; the team, inspired by 
the presence of the Firebolt in their midst, performed 
their best moves faultlessly, and by the time they hit 
the ground again, Wood didn’t have a single criticism 
to make, which, as George Weasley pointed out, was a 
first. 

“I can’t see what’s going to stop us tomorrow!” said 
Wood. “Not unless — Harry, you’ve sorted out your 
dementor problem, haven’t you?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, thinking of his feeble Patronus 
and wishing it were stronger. 

“The dementors won’t turn up again, Oliver. 
Dumbledore’d go ballistic,” said Fred confidently. 



Page | 284 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, let’s hope not,” said Wood. “Anyway — good 
work, everyone. Let’s get back to the tower ... turn in 
early — ” 

“I’m staying out for a bit; Ron wants a go on the 
Firebolt,” Harry told Wood, and while the rest of the 
team headed off to the locker rooms, Harry strode 
over to Ron, who vaulted the barrier to the stands 
and came to meet him. Madam Hooch had fallen 
asleep in her seat. 

“Here you go,” said Harry, handing Ron the Firebolt. 

Ron, an expression of ecstasy on his face, mounted 
the broom and zoomed off into the gathering darkness 
while Harry walked around the edge of the field, 
watching him. Night had fallen before Madam Hooch 
awoke with a start, told Harry and Ron off for not 
waking her, and insisted that they go back to the 
castle. 

Harry shouldered the Firebolt and he and Ron walked 
out of the shadowy stadium, discussing the Firebolt’s 
superbly smooth action, its phenomenal acceleration, 
and its pinpoint turning. They were halfway toward 
the castle when Harry, glancing to his left, saw 
something that made his heart turn over — a pair of 
eyes, gleaming out of the darkness. 

Harry stopped dead, his heart banging against his 
ribs. 

“What’s the matter?” said Ron. 

Harry pointed. Ron pulled out his wand and 
muttered, “Lumos\” 



Page | 285 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




A beam of light fell across the grass, hit the bottom of 
a tree, and illuminated its branches; there, crouching 
among the budding leaves, was Crookshanks. 

“Get out of here!” Ron roared, and he stooped down 
and seized a stone lying on the grass, but before he 
could do anything else, Crookshanks had vanished 
with one swish of his long ginger tail. 

“See?” Ron said furiously, chucking the stone down 
again. “She’s still letting him wander about wherever 
he wants — probably washing down Scabbers with a 
couple of birds now. ...” 

Harry didn’t say anything. He took a deep breath as 
relief seeped through him; he had been sure for a 
moment that those eyes had belonged to the Grim. 
They set off for the castle once more. Slightly 
ashamed of his moment of panic, Harry didn’t say 
anything to Ron — nor did he look left or right until 
they had reached the well-lit entrance hall. 

Harry went down to breakfast the next morning with 
the rest of the boys in his dormitory, all of whom 
seemed to think the Firebolt deserved a sort of guard 
of honor. As Harry entered the Great Hall, heads 
turned in the direction of the Firebolt, and there was 
a good deal of excited muttering. Harry saw, with 
enormous satisfaction, that the Slytherin team were 
all looking thunderstruck. 

“Did you see his face?” said Ron gleefully, looking 
back at Malfoy. “He can’t believe it! This is brilliant!” 

Wood, too, was basking in the reflected glory of the 
Firebolt. 

“Put it here, Harry,” he said, laying the broom in the 
middle of the table and carefully turning it so that its 

Page | 286 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




name faced upward. People from the Ravenclaw and 
Hufflepuff tables were soon coming over to look. 
Cedric Diggory came over to congratulate Harry on 
having acquired such a superb replacement for his 
Nimbus, and Percy’s Ravenclaw girlfriend, Penelope 
Clearwater, asked if she could actually hold the 
Firebolt. 

“Now, now, Penny, no sabotage!” said Percy heartily 
as she examined the Firebolt closely “Penelope and I 
have got a bet on,” he told the team. “Ten Galleons on 
the outcome of the match!” 

Penelope put the Firebolt down again, thanked Harry, 
and went back to her table. 

“Harry — make sure you win,” said Percy, in an 
urgent whisper. “I haven’t got ten Galleons. Yes, I’m 
coming, Penny!” And he bustled off to join her in a 
piece of toast. 

“Sure you can manage that broom, Potter?” said a 
cold, drawling voice. 

Draco Malfoy had arrived for a closer look, Crabbe 
and Goyle right behind him. 

“Yeah, reckon so,” said Harry casually. 

“Got plenty of special features, hasn’t it?” said Malfoy, 
eyes glittering maliciously. “Shame it doesn’t come 
with a parachute — in case you get too near a 
dementor.” 

Crabbe and Goyle sniggered. 

“Pity you can’t attach an extra arm to yours, Malfoy,” 
said Harry. “Then it could catch the Snitch for you.” 



Page | 287 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




The Gryffindor team laughed loudly. Malfoy’s pale 
eyes narrowed, and he stalked away. They watched 
him rejoin the rest of the Slytherin team, who put 
their heads together, no doubt asking Malfoy whether 
Harry’s broom really was a Firebolt. 

At a quarter to eleven, the Gryffindor team set off for 
the locker rooms. The weather couldn’t have been 
more different from their match against Hufflepuff. It 
was a clear, cool day with a very light breeze; there 
would be no visibility problems this time, and Harry, 
though nervous, was starting to feel the excitement 
only a Quidditch match could bring. They could hear 
the rest of the school moving into the stadium 
beyond. Harry took off his black school robes, 
removed his wand from his pocket, and stuck it 
inside the T-shirt he was going to wear under his 
Quidditch robes. He only hoped he wouldn’t need it. 
He wondered suddenly whether Professor Lupin was 
in the crowd, watching. 

“You know what we’ve got to do,” said Wood as they 
prepared to leave the locker rooms. “If we lose this 
match, we’re out of the running. Just — just fly like 
you did in practice yesterday, and we’ll be okay!” 

They walked out onto the field to tumultuous 
applause. The Ravenclaw team, dressed in blue, were 
already standing in the middle of the field. Their 
Seeker, Cho Chang, was the only girl on their team. 
She was shorter than Harry by about a head, and 
Harry couldn’t help noticing, nervous as he was, that 
she was extremely pretty. She smiled at Harry as the 
teams faced each other behind their captains, and he 
felt a slight lurch in the region of his stomach that he 
didn’t think had anything to do with nerves. 



Page | 288 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Wood, Davies, shake hands,” Madam Hooch said 
briskly, and Wood shook hands with the Ravenclaw 
Captain. 

“Mount your brooms ... on my whistle . . . three — two 
— one — ” 

Harry kicked off into the air and the Firebolt zoomed 
higher and faster than any other broom; he soared 
around the stadium and began squinting around for 
the Snitch, listening all the while to the commentary, 
which was being provided by the Weasley twins’ 
friend Lee Jordan. 

“They’re off, and the big excitement this match is the 
Firebolt that Harry Potter is flying for Gryffindor. 
According to Which Broomstick, the Firebolt’s going to 
be the broom of choice for the national teams at this 
year’s World Championship — ” 

“Jordan, would you mind telling us what’s going on in 
the match?” interrupted Professor McGonagall’s voice. 

“Right you are, Professor — just giving a bit of 
background information — the Firebolt, incidentally, 
has a built-in auto-brake and — ” 

“Jordan!” 

“Okay, okay, Gryffindor in possession, Katie Bell of 
Gryffindor heading for goal ...” 

Harry streaked past Katie in the opposite direction, 
gazing around for a glint of gold and noticing that Cho 
Chang was tailing him closely. She was undoubtedly 
a very good flier — she kept cutting across him, 
forcing him to change direction. 



Page | 289 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Show her your acceleration, Harry!” Fred yelled as he 
whooshed past in pursuit of a Bludger that was 
aiming for Alicia. 

Harry urged the Firebolt forward as they rounded the 
Ravenclaw goal posts and Cho fell behind. Just as 
Katie succeeded in scoring the first goal of the match, 
and the Gryffindor end of the field went wild, he saw 
it — the Snitch was close to the ground, flitting near 
one of the barriers. 

Harry dived; Cho saw what he was doing and tore 
after him — Harry was speeding up, excitement 
flooding him; dives were his speciality, he was ten feet 
away — 

Then a Bludger, hit by one of the Ravenclaw Beaters, 
came pelting out of nowhere; Harry veered off course, 
avoiding it by an inch, and in those few, crucial 
seconds, the Snitch had vanished. 

There was a great “Ooooooh” of disappointment from 
the Gryffindor supporters, but much applause for 
their Beater from the Ravenclaw end. George Weasley 
vented his feelings by hitting the second Bludger 
directly at the offending Beater, who was forced to roll 
right over in midair to avoid it. 

“Gryffindor leads by eighty points to zero, and look at 
that Firebolt go! Potter’s really putting it through its 
paces now, see it turn — Chang’s Comet is just no 
match for it, the Firebolt’s precision-balance is really 
noticeable in these long — ” 

“JORDAN! ARE YOU BEING PAID TO ADVERTISE 
FIREBOLTS? GET ON WITH THE COMMENTARY!” 

Ravenclaw was pulling back; they had now scored 
three goals, which put Gryffindor only fifty points 

Page | 290 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




ahead — if Cho got the Snitch before him, Ravenclaw 
would win. Harry dropped lower, narrowly avoiding a 
Ravenclaw Chaser, scanning the field frantically — a 
glint of gold, a flutter of tiny wings — the Snitch was 
circling the Gryffindor goal post — 

Harry accelerated, eyes fixed on the speck of gold 
ahead — but just then, Cho appeared out of thin air, 
blocking him — 

“HARRY, THIS IS NO TIME TO BE A GENTLEMAN!” 
Wood roared as Harry swerved to avoid a collision. 
“KNOCK HER OFF HER BROOM IF YOU HAVE TO!” 

Harry turned and caught sight of Cho; she was 
grinning. The Snitch had vanished again. Harry 
turned his Firebolt upward and was soon twenty feet 
above the game. Out of the corner of his eye, he saw 
Cho following him. ... She’d decided to mark him 
rather than search for the Snitch herself. . . . All right, 
then ... if she wanted to tail him, she’d have to take 
the consequences. ... 

He dived again, and Cho, thinking he’d seen the 
Snitch, tried to follow; Harry pulled out of the dive 
very sharply; she hurtled downward; he rose fast as a 
bullet once more, and then saw it, for the third time 
— the Snitch was glittering way above the field at the 
Ravenclaw end. 

He accelerated; so, many feet below, did Cho. He was 
winning, gaining on the Snitch with every second — 
then — 

“Oh!” screamed Cho, pointing. 

Distracted, Harry looked down. 



Page | 291 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Three dementors, three tall, black, hooded dementors, 
were looking up at him. 

He didn’t stop to think. Plunging a hand down the 
neck of his robes, he whipped out his wand and 
roared, “Expecto patronum).” 

Something silver-white, something enormous, erupted 
from the end of his wand. He knew it had shot 
directly at the dementors but didn’t pause to watch; 
his mind still miraculously clear, he looked ahead — 
he was nearly there. He stretched out the hand still 
grasping his wand and just managed to close his 
fingers over the small, struggling Snitch. 

Madam Hooch’s whistle sounded. Harry turned 
around in midair and saw six scarlet blurs bearing 
down on him; next moment, the whole team was 
hugging him so hard he was nearly pulled off his 
broom. Down below he could hear the roars of the 
Gryffindors in the crowd. 

“That’s my boy!” Wood kept yelling. Alicia, Angelina, 
and Katie had all kissed Harry; Fred had him in a grip 
so tight Harry felt as though his head would come off. 
In complete disarray, the team managed to make its 
way back to the ground. Harry got off his broom and 
looked up to see a gaggle of Gryffindor supporters 
sprinting onto the field, Ron in the lead. Before he 
knew it, he had been engulfed by the cheering crowd. 

“Yes!” Ron yelled, yanking Harry’s arm into the air. 
“Yes! Yes!” 

“Well done, Harry!” said Percy, looking delighted. “Ten 
Galleons to me! Must find Penelope, excuse me — ” 

“Good for you, Harry!” roared Seamus Finnigan. 



Page | 292 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Ruddy brilliant!” boomed Hagrid over the heads of 
the milling Gryffindors. 

“That was quite some Patronus,” said a voice in 
Harry’s ear. 

Harry turned around to see Professor Lupin, who 
looked both shaken and pleased. 

“The dementors didn’t affect me at all!” Harry said 
excitedly. “I didn’t feel a thing!” 

“That would be because they — er — weren’t 
dementors,” said Professor Lupin. “Come and see — ” 

He led Harry out of the crowd until they were able to 
see the edge of the field. 

“You gave Mr. Malfoy quite a fright,” said Lupin. 

Harry stared. Lying in a crumpled heap on the ground 
were Malfoy, Crabbe, Goyle, and Marcus Flint, the 
Slytherin team Captain, all struggling to remove 
themselves from long, black, hooded robes. It looked 
as though Malfoy had been standing on Goyle ’s 
shoulders. Standing over them, with an expression of 
the utmost fury on her face, was Professor 
McGonagall. 

“An unworthy trick!” she was shouting. “A low and 
cowardly attempt to sabotage the Gryffindor Seeker! 
Detention for all of you, and fifty points from 
Slytherin! I shall be speaking to Professor 
Dumbledore about this, make no mistake! Ah, here 
he comes now!” 

If anything could have set the seal on Gryffindor’s 
victory, it was this. Ron, who had fought his way 
through to Harry’s side, doubled up with laughter as 

Page | 293 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




they watched Malfoy fighting to extricate himself from 
the robe, Goyle’s head still stuck inside it. 



“Come on, Harry!” said George, fighting his way over. 
“Party! Gryffindor common room, now!” 

“Right,” said Harry, and feeling happier than he had 
in ages, he and the rest of the team led the way, still 
in their scarlet robes, out of the stadium and back up 
to the castle. 



It felt as though they had already won the Quidditch 
Cup; the party went on all day and well into the night. 
Fred and George Weasley disappeared for a couple of 
hours and returned with armfuls of bottles of 
butterbeer, pumpkin fizz, and several bags full of 
Honeydukes sweets. 

“How did you do that?” squealed Angelina Johnson as 
George started throwing Peppermint Toads into the 
crowd. 

“With a little help from Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and 
Prongs,” Fred muttered in Harry’s ear. 

Only one person wasn’t joining in the festivities. 
Hermione, incredibly, was sitting in a corner, 
attempting to read an enormous book entitled Home 
Life and Social Habits of British Muggles. Harry broke 
away from the table where Fred and George had 
started juggling butterbeer bottles and went over to 
her. 

“Did you even come to the match?” he asked her. 

“Of course I did,” said Hermione in a strangely high- 
pitched voice, not looking up. “And I’m very glad we 

Page | 294 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




won, and I think you did really well, but I need to 
read this by Monday.” 

“Come on, Hermione, come and have some food,” 
Harry said, looking over at Ron and wondering 
whether he was in a good enough mood to bury the 
hatchet. 

“I can’t, Harry. I’ve still got four hundred and twenty- 
two pages to read!” said Hermione, now sounding 
slightly hysterical. “Anyway ...” She glanced over at 
Ron too. “He doesn’t want me to join in.” 

There was no arguing with this, as Ron chose that 
moment to say loudly, “If Scabbers hadn’t just been 
eaten, he could have had some of those Fudge Flies. 
He used to really like them — ” 

Hermione burst into tears. Before Harry could say or 
do anything, she tucked the enormous book under 
her arm, and, still sobbing, ran toward the staircase 
to the girls’ dormitories and out of sight. 

“Can’t you give her a break?” Harry asked Ron 
quietly. 

“No,” said Ron flatly. “If she just acted like she was 
sorry — but she’ll never admit she’s wrong, Hermione. 
She’s still acting like Scabbers has gone on vacation 
or something.” 

The Gryffindor party ended only when Professor 
McGonagall turned up in her tartan dressing gown 
and hair net at one in the morning, to insist that they 
all go to bed. Harry and Ron climbed the stairs to 
their dormitory, still discussing the match. At last, 
exhausted, Harry climbed into bed, twitched the 
hangings of his four-poster shut to block out a ray of 



Page | 295 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




moonlight, lay back, and felt himself almost instantly 
drifting off to sleep. ... 

He had a very strange dream. He was walking 
through a forest, his Firebolt over his shoulder, 
following something silvery- white. It was winding its 
way through the trees ahead, and he could only catch 
glimpses of it between the leaves. Anxious to catch up 
with it, he sped up, but as he moved faster, so did his 
quarry. Harry broke into a run, and ahead he heard 
hooves gathering speed. Now he was running flat out, 
and ahead he could hear galloping. Then he turned a 
corner into a clearing and — 

“AAAAAAAAAAAAAARRRRRRRRRRRRGGGGGHHHHH 
! NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!” 

Harry woke as suddenly as though he’d been hit in 
the face. Disoriented in the total darkness, he 
fumbled with his hangings — he could hear 
movements around him, and Seamus Finnigan’s voice 
from the other side of the room: “What’s going on?” 

Harry thought he heard the dormitory door slam. At 
last finding the divide in his curtains, he ripped them 
back, and at the same moment, Dean Thomas lit his 
lamp. 

Ron was sitting up in bed, the hangings torn from one 
side, a look of utmost terror on his face. 

“Black! Sirius Black! With a knife!” 

“What?” 

“Here! Just now! Slashed the curtains! Woke me up!” 
“You sure you weren’t dreaming, Ron?” said Dean. 



Page | 296 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Look at the curtains! I tell you, he was here!” 

They all scrambled out of bed; Harry reached the 
dormitory door first, and they sprinted back down the 
staircase. Doors opened behind them, and sleepy 
voices called after them. 

“Who shouted?” 

“What ’re you doing?” 

The common room was lit with the glow of the dying 
fire, still littered with the debris from the party. It was 
deserted. 

“Are you sure you weren’t dreaming, Ron?” 

“I’m telling you, I saw him!” 

“What’s all the noise?” 

“Professor McGonagall told us to go to bed!” 

A few of the girls had come down their staircase, 
pulling on dressing gowns and yawning. Boys, too, 
were reappearing. 

“Excellent, are we carrying on?” said Fred Weasley 
brightly. 

“Everyone back upstairs!” said Percy, 
hurrying into the common room and pinning his 
Head Boy badge to his pajamas as he spoke. 

“Perce — Sirius Black!” said Ron faintly. “In our 
dormitory! With a knife! Woke me up!” 

The common room went very still. 



Page | 297 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Nonsense!” said Percy, looking startled. “You had too 
much to eat, Ron — had a nightmare — ” 



“I’m telling you — ” 

“Now, really, enough’s enough!” 

Professor McGonagall was back. She slammed the 
portrait behind her as she entered the common room 
and stared furiously around. 

“I am delighted that Gryffindor won the match, but 
this is getting ridiculous! Percy, I expected better of 
you!” 

“I certainly didn’t authorize this, Professor!” said 
Percy, puffing himself up indignantly. “I was just 
telling them all to get back to bed! My brother Ron 
here had a nightmare — ” 

“IT WASNT A NIGHTMARE!” Ron yelled. 

“PROFESSOR, I WOKE UP, AND SIRIUS BLACK WAS 
STANDING OVER ME, HOLDING A KNIFE!” 

Professor McGonagall stared at him. 

“Don’t be ridiculous, Weasley, how could he possibly 
have gotten through the portrait hole?” 

“Ask him!” said Ron, pointing a shaking finger at the 
back of Sir Cadogan’s picture. “Ask him if he saw — ” 

Glaring suspiciously at Ron, Professor McGonagall 
pushed the portrait back open and went outside. The 
whole common room listened with bated breath. 

“Sir Cadogan, did you just let a man enter Gryffindor 
Tower?” 

Page | 298 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Certainly, good lady!” cried Sir Cadogan. 

There was a stunned silence, both inside and outside 
the common room. 

“You — you did?” said Professor McGonagall. “But — 
but the password!” 

“He had ’em!” said Sir Cadogan proudly. “Had the 
whole week’s, my lady! Read ’em off a little piece of 
paper!” 

Professor McGonagall pulled herself back through the 
portrait hole to face the stunned crowd. She was 
white as chalk. 

“Which person,” she said, her voice shaking, “which 
abysmally foolish person wrote down this week’s 
passwords and left them lying around?” 

There was utter silence, broken by the smallest of 
terrified squeaks. Neville Longbottom, trembling from 
head to fluffy-slippered toes, raised his hand slowly 
into the air. 



Page | 299 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 






SNAPE’S GRUDGE 

No one in Gryffindor Tower slept that night. They 
knew that the castle was being searched again, and 
the whole House stayed awake in the common room, 
waiting to hear whether Black had been caught. 
Professor McGonagall came back at dawn, to tell 
them that he had again escaped. 

Throughout the day, everywhere they went they saw 
signs of tighter security; Professor Flitwick could be 
seen teaching the front doors to recognize a large 
picture of Sirius Black; Filch was suddenly bustling 
up and down the corridors, boarding up everything 
from tiny cracks in the walls to mouse holes. Sir 
Cadogan had been fired. His portrait had been taken 
back to its lonely landing on the seventh floor, and 
the Fat Lady was back. She had been expertly 
restored, but was still extremely nervous, and had 
agreed to return to her job only on condition that she 
was given extra protection. A bunch of surly security 
trolls had been hired to guard her. They paced the 
corridor in a menacing group, talking in grunts and 
comparing the size of their clubs. 

Page | 300 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



Harry couldn’t help noticing that the statue of the 
one-eyed witch on the third floor remained unguarded 
and unblocked. It seemed that Fred and George had 
been right in thinking that they — and now Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione — were the only ones who knew 
about the hidden passageway within it. 

“D’you reckon we should tell someone?” Harry asked 
Ron. 

“We know he’s not coming in through Honey duke’s,” 
said Ron dismissively “We’d’ve heard if the shop had 
been broken into.” 

Harry was glad Ron took this view. If the one-eyed 
witch was boarded up too, he would never be able to 
go into Hogsmeade again. 

Ron had become an instant celebrity. For the first 
time in his life, people were paying more attention to 
him than to Harry, and it was clear that Ron was 
rather enjoying the experience. Though still severely 
shaken by the night’s events, he was happy to tell 
anyone who asked what had happened, with a wealth 
of detail. 

"... I was asleep, and I heard this ripping noise, and I 
thought it was in my dream, you know? But then 
there was this draft ... I woke up and one side of the 
hangings on my bed had been pulled down. ... I rolled 
over . . . and I saw him standing over me . . . like a 
skeleton, with loads of filthy hair . . . holding this great 
long knife, must’ve been twelve inches ... and he 
looked at me, and I looked at him, and then I yelled, 
and he scampered. 

“Why, though?” Ron added to Harry as the group of 
second-year girls who had been listening to his 
chilling tale departed. “Why did he run?” 

Page | 301 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry had been wondering the same thing. Why had 
Black, having got the wrong bed, not silenced Ron 
and proceeded to Harry? Black had proved twelve 
years ago that he didn’t mind murdering innocent 
people, and this time he had been facing five 
unarmed boys, four of whom were asleep. 

“He must’ve known he’d have a job getting back out of 
the castle once you’d yelled and woken people up,” 
said Harry thoughtfully. “He’d’ve had to kill the whole 
House to get back through the portrait hole . . . then 
he would’ve met the teachers. ...” 

Neville was in total disgrace. Professor McGonagall 
was so furious with him she had banned him from all 
future Hogsmeade visits, given him a detention, and 
forbidden anyone to give him the password into the 
tower. Poor Neville was forced to wait outside the 
common room every night for somebody to let him in, 
while the security trolls leered unpleasantly at him. 
None of these punishments, however, came close to 
matching the one his grandmother had in store for 
him. Two days after Black’s break-in, she sent Neville 
the very worst thing a Hogwarts student could receive 
over breakfast — a Howler. 

The school owls swooped into the Great Hall carrying 
the mail as usual, and Neville choked as a huge barn 
owl landed in front of him, a scarlet envelope clutched 
in its beak. Harry and Ron, who were sitting opposite 
him, recognized the letter as a Howler at once — Ron 
had got one from his mother the year before. 

“Run for it, Neville,” Ron advised. 

Neville didn’t need telling twice. He seized the 
envelope, and holding it before him like a bomb, 
sprinted out of the hall, while the Slytherin table 
exploded with laughter at the sight of him. They 

Page | 302 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




heard the Howler go off in the entrance hall — 
Neville’s grandmother’s voice, magically magnified to 
a hundred times its usual volume, shrieking about 
how he had brought shame on the whole family. 

Harry was too busy feeling sorry for Neville to notice 
immediately that he had a letter too. Hedwig got his 
attention by nipping him sharply on the wrist. 

“Ouch! Oh — thanks, Hedwig.” 

Harry tore open the envelope while Hedwig helped 
herself to some of Neville’s cornflakes. The note inside 
said: 

Dear Harry and Ron, 

How about having tea with me this afternoon ’round 
six? 



I’ll come and collect you from the castle. 

WAIT FOR ME IN THE ENTRANCE HALL; 

YOU’RE NOT ALLOWED OUT ON YOUR OWN 
Cheers, 

Hagrid 

“He probably wants to hear all about Black!” said 
Ron. 

So at six o’clock that afternoon, Harry and Ron left 
Gryffindor Tower, passed the security trolls at a run, 
and headed down to the entrance hall. 

Hagrid was already waiting for them. 



Page | 303 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“All right, Hagrid!” said Ron. “S’pose you want to hear 
about Saturday night, do you?” 

“I’ve already heard all abou’ it,” said Hagrid, opening 
the front doors and leading them outside. 

“Oh,” said Ron, looking slightly put out. 

The first thing they saw on entering Hagrid’s cabin 
was Buckbeak, who was stretched out on top of 
Hagrid’s patchwork quilt, his enormous wings folded 
tight to his body, enjoying a large plate of dead 
ferrets. Averting his eyes from this unpleasant sight, 
Harry saw a gigantic, hairy brown suit and a very 
horrible yellow-and-orange tie hanging from the top of 
Hagrid’s wardrobe door. 

“What are they for, Hagrid?” said Harry. 

“Buckbeak’s case against the Committee fer the 
Disposal o’ Dangerous Creatures,” said Hagrid. “This 
Friday. Him an’ me’ll be goin’ down ter London 
together. I’ve booked two beds on the Knight Bus. ...” 

Harry felt a nasty pang of guilt. He had completely 
forgotten that Buckbeak’s trial was so near, and 
judging by the uneasy look on Ron’s face, he had too. 
They had also forgotten their promise about helping 
him prepare Buckbeak’s defense; the arrival of the 
Firebolt had driven it clean out of their minds. 

Hagrid poured them tea and offered them a plate of 
Bath buns, but they knew better than to accept; they 
had had too much experience with Hagrid’s cooking. 

“I got somethin’ ter discuss with you two,” said 
Hagrid, sitting himself between them and looking 
uncharacteristically serious. 



Page | 304 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“What?” said Harry. 

“Hermione,” said Hagrid. 

“What about her?” said Ron. 

“She’s in a righ’ state, that’s what. She’s bin cornin’ 
down ter visit me a lot since Chris ’mas. Bin feelin’ 
lonely. Firs’ yeh weren’ talking to her because o’ the 
Firebolt, now yer not talkin’ to her because her cat — ” 

“ — ate Scabbers!” Ron interjected angrily. 

“Because her cat acted like all cats do,” Hagrid 
continued doggedly. “She’s cried a fair few times, yeh 
know. Goin’ through a rough time at the moment. 
Bitten off more’n she can chew, if yeh ask me, all the 
work she’s tryin’ ter do. Still found time ter help me 
with Buckbeak’s case, mind. ... She’s found some 
really good stuff fer me ... reckon he’ll stand a good 
chance now. ...” 

“Hagrid, we should’ve helped as well — sorry — ” 

Harry began awkwardly. 

“I’m not blamin’ yeh!” said Hagrid, waving Harry’s 
apology aside. “Gawd knows yeh’ve had enough ter be 
gettin’ on with. I’ve seen yeh practicin’ Quidditch ev’ry 
hour o’ the day an’ night — but I gotta tell yeh, I 
thought you two’d value yer friend more’n 
broomsticks or rats. Tha’s all.” 

Harry and Ron exchanged uncomfortable looks. 

“Really upset, she was, when Black nearly stabbed 
yeh, Ron. She’s got her heart in the right place, 
Hermione has, an’ you two not talkin’ to her — ” 



Page | 305 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“If she’d just get rid of that cat, I’d speak to her 
again!” Ron said angrily. “But she’s still sticking up 
for it! It’s a maniac, and she won’t hear a word 
against it!” 

“Ah, well, people can be a bit stupid abou’ their pets,” 
said Hagrid wisely. Behind him, Buckbeak spat a few 
ferret bones onto Hagrid’s pillow. 

They spent the rest of their visit discussing 
Gryffindor’s improved chances for the Quidditch Cup. 
At nine o’clock, Hagrid walked them back up to the 
castle. 

A large group of people was bunched around the 
bulletin board when they returned to the common 
room. 

“Hogsmeade, next weekend!” said Ron, craning over 
the heads to read the new notice. “What d’you 
reckon?” he added quietly to Harry as they went to sit 
down. 

“Well, Filch hasn’t done anything about the passage 
into Honeydukes. ...” Harry said, even more quietly. 

“Harry!” said a voice in his right ear. Harry started 
and looked around at Hermione, who was sitting at 
the table right behind them and clearing a space in 
the wall of books that had been hiding her. 

“Harry, if you go into Hogsmeade again ... I’ll tell 
Professor McGonagall about that map!” said 
Hermione. 

“Can you hear someone talking, Harry?” growled Ron, 
not looking at Hermione. 



Page | 306 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Ron, how can you let him go with you? After what 
Sirius Black nearly did to youl I mean it, I’ll tell — ” 

“So now you’re trying to get Harry expelled!” said Ron 
furiously. “Haven’t you done enough damage this 
year?” 

Hermione opened her mouth to respond, but with a 
soft hiss, Crookshanks leapt onto her lap. Hermione 
took one frightened look at the expression on Ron’s 
face, gathered up Crookshanks, and hurried away 
toward the girls’ dormitories. 

“So how about it?” Ron said to Harry as though there 
had been no interruption. “Come on, last time we 
went you didn’t see anything. You haven’t even been 
inside Zonko’s yet!” 

Harry looked around to check that Hermione was well 
out of earshot. 

“Okay,” he said. “But I’m taking the Invisibility Cloak 
this time.” 

On Saturday morning, Harry packed his Invisibility 
Cloak in his bag, slipped the Marauder’s Map into his 
pocket, and went down to breakfast with everyone 
else. Hermione kept shooting suspicious looks down 
the table at him, but he avoided her eye and was 
careful to let her see him walking back up the marble 
staircase in the entrance hall as everybody else 
proceeded to the front doors. 

“ ’Bye!” Harry called to Ron. “See you when you get 
back!” 

Ron grinned and winked. 



Page | 307 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry hurried up to the third floor, slipping the 
Marauder’s Map out of his pocket as he went. 
Crouching behind the one-eyed witch, he smoothed it 
out. A tiny dot was moving in his direction. Harry 
squinted at it. The minuscule writing next to it read 
Neville Longbottom. 

Harry quickly pulled out his wand, muttered, 

“ Dissendium).” and shoved his bag into the statue, but 
before he could climb in himself, Neville came around 
the corner. 

“Harry! I forgot you weren’t going to Hogsmeade 
either!” 

“Hi, Neville,” said Harry, moving swiftly away from the 
statue and pushing the map back into his pocket. 
“What are you up to?” 

“Nothing,” shrugged Neville. “Want a game of 
Exploding Snap?” 

“Er — not now — I was going to go to the library and 
do that vampire essay for Lupin — ” 

“I’ll come with you!” said Neville brightly. “I haven’t 
done it either!” 

“Er — hang on — yeah, I forgot, I finished it last 
night!” 

“Great, you can help me!” said Neville, his round face 
anxious. “I don’t understand that thing about the 
garlic at all — do they have to eat it, or — ” 

He broke off with a small gasp, looking over Harry’s 
shoulder. 

It was Snape. Neville took a quick step behind Harry. 

Page | 308 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“And what are you two doing here?” said Snape, 
coming to a halt and looking from one to the other. 
“An odd place to meet — ” 

To Harry’s immense disquiet, Snape’s black eyes 
flicked to the doorways on either side of them, and 
then to the one-eyed witch. 

“We’re not — meeting here,” said Harry. “We just — 
met here.” 

“Indeed?” said Snape. “You have a habit of turning up 
in unexpected places, Potter, and you are very rarely 
there for no good reason. ... I suggest the pair of you 
return to Gryffindor Tower, where you belong.” 

Harry and Neville set off without another word. As 
they turned the corner, Harry looked back. Snape was 
running one of his hands over the one-eyed witch’s 
head, examining it closely. 

Harry managed to shake Neville off at the Fat Lady by 
telling him the password, then pretending he’d left his 
vampire essay in the library and doubling back. Once 
out of sight of the security trolls, he pulled out the 
map again and held it close to his nose. 

The third floor corridor seemed to be deserted. Harry 
scanned the map carefully and saw, with a leap of 
relief, that the tiny dot labeled Severus Snape was 
now back in its office. 

He sprinted back to the one-eyed witch, opened her 
hump, heaved himself inside, and slid down to meet 
his bag at the bottom of the stone chute. He wiped 
the Marauder’s Map blank again, then set off at a 
run. 



Page | 309 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry, completely hidden beneath the Invisibility 
Cloak, emerged into the sunlight outside Honeydukes 
and prodded Ron in the back. 

“It’s me,” he muttered. 

“What kept you?” Ron hissed. 

“Snape was hanging around. ...” 

They set off up the High Street. 

“Where are you?” Ron kept muttering out of the 
corner of his mouth. “Are you still there? This feels 
weird. ...” 

They went to the post office; Ron pretended to be 
checking the price of an owl to Bill in Egypt so that 
Harry could have a good look around. The owls sat 
hooting softly down at him, at least three hundred of 
them; from Great Grays right down to tiny little Scops 
owls (“Local Deliveries Only”), which were so small 
they could have sat in the palm of Harry’s hand. 

Then they visited Zonko’s, which was so packed with 
students Harry had to exercise great care not to tread 
on anyone and cause a panic. There were jokes and 
tricks to fulfill even Fred’s and George’s wildest 
dreams; Harry gave Ron whispered orders and passed 
him some gold from under the cloak. They left 
Zonko’s with their money bags considerably lighter 
than they had been on entering, but their pockets 
bulging with Dungbombs, Hiccup Sweets, Frog Spawn 
Soap, and a Nose-Biting Teacup apiece. 

The day was fine and breezy, and neither of them felt 
like staying indoors, so they walked past the Three 
Broomsticks and climbed a slope to visit the 
Shrieking Shack, the most haunted dwelling in 

Page | 310 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Britain. It stood a little way above the rest of the 
village, and even in daylight was slightly creepy, with 
its boarded windows and dank overgrown garden. 

“Even the Hogwarts ghosts avoid it,” said Ron as they 
leaned on the fence, looking up at it. “I asked Nearly 
Headless Nick ... he says he’s heard a very rough 
crowd lives here. No one can get in. Fred and George 
tried, obviously, but all the entrances are sealed shut. 



Harry, feeling hot from their climb, was just 
considering taking off the cloak for a few minutes 
when they heard voices nearby. Someone was 
climbing toward the house from the other side of the 
hill; moments later, Malfoy had appeared, followed 
closely by Crabbe and Goyle. Malfoy was speaking. 

"... should have an owl from Father any time now. He 
had to go to the hearing to tell them about my arm . . . 
about how I couldn’t use it for three months. ...” 

Crabbe and Goyle sniggered. 

“I really wish I could hear that great hairy moron 
trying to defend himself ... There’s no ’arm in ’im, 
’onest — ’ . . . that hippogriff’s as good as dead — ” 

Malfoy suddenly caught sight of Ron. His pale face 
split in a malevolent grin. 

“What are you doing, Weasley?” 

Malfoy looked up at the crumbling house behind Ron. 

“Suppose you’d love to live here, wouldn’t you, 
Weasley? Dreaming about having your own bedroom? 

I heard your family all sleep in one room — is that 
true?” 

Page | 311 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry seized the back of Ron’s robes to stop him from 
leaping on Malfoy. 

“Leave him to me,” he hissed in Ron’s ear. 

The opportunity was too perfect to miss. Harry crept 
silently around behind Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle, 
bent down, and scooped a large handful of mud out of 
the path. 

“We were just discussing your friend Hagrid,” Malfoy 
said to Ron. “Just trying to imagine what he’s saying 
to the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous 
Creatures. D’you think he’ll cry when they cut off his 
hippogriff’s — ” 

SPLAT. 

Malfoy’s head jerked forward as the mud hit him; his 
silver-blond hair was suddenly dripping in muck. 

“What the — ?” 

Ron had to hold onto the fence to keep himself 
standing, he was laughing so hard. Malfoy, Crabbe, 
and Goyle spun stupidly on the spot, staring wildly 
around, Malfoy trying to wipe his hair clean. 

“What was that? Who did that?” 

“Very haunted up here, isn’t it?” said Ron, with the 
air of one commenting on the weather. 

Crabbe and Goyle were looking scared. Their bulging 
muscles were no use against ghosts. Malfoy was 
staring madly around at the deserted landscape. 



Page | 312 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry sneaked along the path, where a particularly 
sloppy puddle yielded some foul-smelling, green 
sludge. 

SPLATTER. 

Crabbe and Goyle caught some this time. Goyle 
hopped furiously on the spot, trying to rub it out of 
his small, dull eyes. 

“It came from over there!” said Malfoy, wiping his 
face, and staring at a spot some six feet to the left of 
Harry. 

Crabbe blundered forward, his long arms 
outstretched like a zombie. Harry dodged around him, 
picked up a stick, and lobbed it at Crabbe ’s back. 
Harry doubled up with silent laughter as Crabbe did a 
kind of pirouette in midair, trying to see who had 
thrown it. As Ron was the only person Crabbe could 
see, it was Ron he started toward, but Harry stuck 
out his leg. Crabbe stumbled — and his huge, flat foot 
caught the hem of Harry’s cloak. Harry felt a great 
tug, then the cloak slid off his face. 

For a split second, Malfoy stared at him. 

“AAARGH!” he yelled, pointing at Harry’s head. Then 
he turned tail and ran, at breakneck speed, back 
down the hill, Crabbe and Goyle behind him. 

Harry tugged the cloak up again, but the damage was 
done. 

“Harry!” Ron said, stumbling forward and staring 
hopelessly at the point where Harry had disappeared, 
“you’d better run for it! If Malfoy tells anyone — you’d 
better get back to the castle, quick — ” 



Page | 313 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“See you later,” said Harry, and without another 
word, he tore back down the path toward Hogsmeade. 



Would Malfoy believe what he had seen? Would 
anyone believe Malfoy? Nobody knew about the 
Invisibility Cloak — nobody except Dumbledore. 
Harry’s stomach turned over — Dumbledore would 
know exactly what had happened, if Malfoy said 
anything — 

Back into Honeydukes, back down the cellar steps, 
across the stone floor, through the trapdoor — Harry 
pulled off the cloak, tucked it under his arm, and ran, 
flat out, along the passage. ... Malfoy would get back 
first . . . how long would it take him to find a teacher? 
Panting, a sharp pain in his side, Harry didn’t slow 
down until he reached the stone slide. He would have 
to leave the cloak where it was, it was too much of a 
giveaway in case Malfoy had tipped off a teacher — he 
hid it in a shadowy corner, then started to climb, fast 
as he could, his sweaty hands slipping on the sides of 
the chute. He reached the inside of the witch’s hump, 
tapped it with his wand, stuck his head through, and 
hoisted himself out; the hump closed, and just as 
Harry jumped out from behind the statue, he heard 
quick footsteps approaching. 

It was Snape. He approached Harry at a swift walk, 
his black robes swishing, then stopped in front of 
him. 

“So,” he said. 

There was a look of suppressed triumph about him. 
Harry tried to look innocent, all too aware of his 
sweaty face and his muddy hands, which he quickly 
hid in his pockets. 

“Come with me, Potter,” said Snape. 

Page | 314 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry followed him downstairs, trying to wipe his 
hands clean on the inside of his robes without Snape 
noticing. They walked down the stairs to the 
dungeons and then into Snape’s office. 

Harry had been in here only once before, and he had 
been in very serious trouble then too. Snape had 
acquired a few more slimy horrible things in jars 
since last time, all standing on shelves behind his 
desk, glinting in the firelight and adding to the 
threatening atmosphere. 

“Sit,” said Snape. 

Harry sat. Snape, however, remained standing. 

“Mr. Malfoy has just been to see me with a strange 
story, Potter,” said Snape. 

Harry didn’t say anything. 

“He tells me that he was up by the Shrieking Shack 
when he ran into Weasley — apparently alone.” 

Still, Harry didn’t speak. 

“Mr. Malfoy states that he was standing talking to 
Weasley, when a large amount of mud hit him in the 
back of the head. How do you think that could have 
happened?” 

Harry tried to look mildly surprised. 

“I don’t know, Professor.” 

Snape’s eyes were boring into Harry’s. It was exactly 
like trying to stare down a hippogriff. Harry tried hard 
not to blink. 



Page | 315 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Mr. Malfoy then saw an extraordinary apparition. 

Can you imagine what it might have been, Potter?” 

“No,” said Harry, now trying to sound innocently 
curious. 

“It was your head, Potter. Floating in midair.” 

There was a long silence. 

“Maybe he’d better go to Madam Pomfrey,” said Harry. 
“If he’s seeing things like — ” 

“What would your head have been doing in 
Hogsmeade, Potter?” said Snape softly. “Your head is 
not allowed in Hogsmeade. No part of your body has 
permission to be in Hogsmeade.” 

“I know that,” said Harry, striving to keep his face free 
of guilt or fear. “It sounds like Malfoy’s having 
hallucin — ” 

“Malfoy is not having hallucinations,” snarled Snape, 
and he bent down, a hand on each arm of Harry’s 
chair, so that their faces were a foot apart. “If your 
head was in Hogsmeade, so was the rest of you.” 

“I’ve been up in Gryffindor Tower,” said Harry. “Like 
you told — ” 

“Can anyone confirm that?” 

Harry didn’t say anything. Snape’s thin mouth curled 
into a horrible smile. 

“So,” he said, straightening up again. “Everyone from 
the Minister of Magic downward has been trying to 
keep famous Harry Potter safe from Sirius Black. But 
famous Harry Potter is a law unto himself. Let the 

Page | 316 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




ordinary people worry about his safety! Famous Harry 
Potter goes where he wants to, with no thought for 
the consequences.” 

Harry stayed silent. Snape was trying to provoke him 
into telling the truth. He wasn’t going to do it. Snape 
had no proof — yet. 

“How extraordinarily like your father you are, Potter,” 
Snape said suddenly, his eyes glinting. “He too was 
exceedingly arrogant. A small amount of talent on the 
Quidditch field made him think he was a cut above 
the rest of us too. Strutting around the place with his 
friends and admirers . . . The resemblance between you 
is uncanny.” 

“My dad didn’t strut,” said Harry, before he could stop 
himself. “And neither do I.” 

“Your father didn’t set much store by rules either,” 
Snape went on, pressing his advantage, his thin face 
full of malice. “Rules were for lesser mortals, not 
Quidditch Cup-winners. His head was so swollen — ” 

“SHUT UP!” 

Harry was suddenly on his feet. Rage such as he had 
not felt since his last night in Privet Drive was 
coursing through him. He didn’t care that Snape’s 
face had gone rigid, the black eyes flashing 
dangerously. 

“ What did you say to me, Potter?” 

“I told you to shut up about my dad!” Harry yelled. “I 
know the truth, all right? He saved your life! 
Dumbledore told me! You wouldn’t even be here if it 
wasn’t for my dad!” 



Page | 317 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Snape’s sallow skin had gone the color of sour milk. 

“And did the headmaster tell you the circumstances 
in which your father saved my life?” he whispered. 

“Or did he consider the details too unpleasant for 
precious Potter’s delicate ears?” 

Harry bit his lip. He didn’t know what had happened 
and didn’t want to admit it — but Snape seemed to 
have guessed the truth. 

“I would hate for you to run away with a false idea of 
your father, Potter,” he said, a terrible grin twisting 
his face. “Have you been imagining some act of 
glorious heroism? Then let me correct you — your 
saintly father and his friends played a highly amusing 
joke on me that would have resulted in my death if 
your father hadn’t got cold feet at the last moment. 
There was nothing brave about what he did. He was 
saving his own skin as much as mine. Had their joke 
succeeded, he would have been expelled from 
Hogwarts.” 

Snape’s uneven, yellowish teeth were bared. 

“Turn out your pockets, Potter!” he spat suddenly. 

Harry didn’t move. There was a pounding in his ears. 

“Turn out your pockets, or we go straight to the 
headmaster! Pull them out, Potter!” 

Cold with dread, Harry slowly pulled out the bag of 
Zonko’s tricks and the Marauder’s Map. 

Snape picked up the Zonko’s bag. 



Page | 318 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Ron gave them to me,” said Harry, praying he’d get a 
chance to tip Ron off before Snape saw him. “He — 
brought them back from Hogsmeade last time — ” 

“Indeed? And you’ve been carrying them around ever 
since? How very touching . . . and what is this?” 

Snape had picked up the map. Harry tried with all his 
might to keep his face impassive. 

“Spare bit of parchment,” he said with a shrug. 

Snape turned it over, his eyes on Harry. 

“Surely you don’t need such a very old piece of 
parchment?” he said. “Why don’t I just — throw this 
away?” 

His hand moved toward the fire. 

“No!” Harry said quickly. 

“So!” said Snape, his long nostrils quivering. “Is this 
another treasured gift from Mr. Weasley? Or is it — 
something else? A letter, perhaps, written in invisible 
ink? Or — instructions to get into Hogsmeade without 
passing the dementors?” 

Harry blinked. Snape ’s eyes gleamed. 

“Let me see, let me see ... ,” he muttered, taking out 
his wand and smoothing the map out on his desk. 
“Reveal your secret!” he said, touching the wand to 
the parchment. 

Nothing happened. Harry clenched his hands to stop 
them from shaking. 



Page | 319 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Show yourself!” Snape said, tapping the map 
sharply. 

It stayed blank. Harry was taking deep, calming 
breaths. 

“Professor Severus Snape, master of this school, 
commands you to yield the information you conceal!” 
Snape said, hitting the map with his wand. 

As though an invisible hand were writing upon it, 
words appeared on the smooth surface of the map. 

“Mr. Moony presents his compliments to Professor 
Snape, and begs him to keep his abnormally large 
nose out of other people’s business.” 

Snape froze. Harry stared, dumbstruck, at the 
message. But the map didn’t stop there. More writing 
was appearing beneath the first. 

“Mr. Prongs agrees with Mr. Moony, and would like to 
add that Professor Snape is an ugly git.” 

It would have been very funny if the situation hadn’t 
been so serious. And there was more. ... 

“Mr. Padfoot would like to register his astonishment 
that an idiot like that ever became a professor.” 

Harry closed his eyes in horror. When he’d opened 
them, the map had had its last word. 

“Mr. Wormtail bids Professor Snape good day, and 
advises him to wash his hair, the slimeball.” 

Harry waited for the blow to fall. 

“So ... ,” said Snape softly. “We’ll see about this. ...” 

Page | 320 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




He strode across to his fire, seized a fistful of 
glittering powder from ajar on the fireplace, and 
threw it into the flames. 

“Lupin!” Snape called into the fire. “I want a word!” 

Utterly bewildered, Harry stared at the fire. A large 
shape had appeared in it, revolving very fast. Seconds 
later, Professor Lupin was clambering out of the 
fireplace, brushing ash off his shabby robes. 

“You called, Severus?” said Lupin mildly. 

“I certainly did,” said Snape, his face contorted with 
fury as he strode back to his desk. “I have just asked 
Potter to empty his pockets. He was carrying this.” 

Snape pointed at the parchment, on which the words 
of Messrs. Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs 
were still shining. An odd, closed expression appeared 
on Lupin’s face. 

“Well?” said Snape. 

Lupin continued to stare at the map. Harry had the 
impression that Lupin was doing some very quick 
thinking. 

“Well?” said Snape again. “This parchment is plainly 
full of Dark Magic. This is supposed to be your area of 
expertise, Lupin. Where do you imagine Potter got 
such a thing?” 

Lupin looked up and, by the merest half-glance in 
Harry’s direction, warned him not to interrupt. 

“Full of Dark Magic?” he repeated mildly. “Do you 
really think so, Severus? It looks to me as though it is 
merely a piece of parchment that insults anybody who 

Page | 321 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




reads it. Childish, but surely not dangerous? I 
imagine Harry got it from a joke shop — ” 

“Indeed?” said Snape. His jaw had gone rigid with 
anger. “You think a joke shop could supply him with 
such a thing? You don’t think it more likely that he 
got it directly from the manufacturers?” 

Harry didn’t understand what Snape was talking 
about. Nor, apparently, did Lupin. 

“You mean, by Mr. Wormtail or one of these people?” 
he said. “Harry, do you know any of these men?” 

“No,” said Harry quickly. 

“You see, Severus?” said Lupin, turning back to 
Snape. “It looks like a Zonko product to me — ” 

Right on cue, Ron came bursting into the office. He 
was completely out of breath, and stopped just short 
of Snape ’s desk, clutching the stitch in his chest and 
trying to speak. 

“I — gave — Harry — that — stuff,” he choked. 
“Bought — it ... in Zonko ’s ... ages — ago ...” 

“Well!” said Lupin, clapping his hands together and 
looking around cheerfully. “That seems to clear that 
up! Severus, I’ll take this back, shall I?” He folded the 
map and tucked it inside his robes. “Harry, Ron, 
come with me, I need a word about my vampire essay 
— excuse us, Severus — ” 

Harry didn’t dare look at Snape as they left his office. 
He, Ron, and Lupin walked all the way back into the 
entrance hall before speaking. Then Harry turned to 
Lupin. 



Page | 322 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Professor, I — ” 



“I don’t want to hear explanations,” said Lupin 
shortly. He glanced around the empty entrance hall 
and lowered his voice. “I happen to know that this 
map was confiscated by Mr. Filch many years ago. 

Yes, I know it’s a map,” he said as Harry and Ron 
looked amazed. “I don’t want to know how it fell into 
your possession. I am, however, astounded that you 
didn’t hand it in. Particularly after what happened the 
last time a student left information about the castle 
lying around. And I can’t let you have it back, Harry.” 

Harry had expected that, and was too keen for 
explanations to protest. 

“Why did Snape think I’d got it from the 
manufacturers?” 

“Because ... ,” Lupin hesitated, “because these 
mapmakers would have wanted to lure you out of 
school. They’d think it extremely entertaining.” 

“Do you know them?” said Harry, impressed. 

“We’ve met,” he said shortly. He was looking at Harry 
more seriously than ever before. 

“Don’t expect me to cover up for you again, Harry. I 
cannot make you take Sirius Black seriously. But I 
would have thought that what you have heard when 
the dementors draw near you would have had more of 
an effect on you. Your parents gave their lives to keep 
you alive, Harry. A poor way to repay them — 
gambling their sacrifice for a bag of magic tricks.” 

He walked away, leaving Harry feeling worse by far 
than he had at any point in Snape ’s office. Slowly, he 
and Ron mounted the marble staircase. As Harry 

Page | 323 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




passed the one-eyed witch, he remembered the 
Invisibility Cloak — it was still down there, but he 
didn’t dare go and get it. 



“It’s my fault,” said Ron abruptly. “I persuaded you to 
go. Lupin’s right, it was stupid, we shouldn’t’ve done 



it — ” 



He broke off; they reached the corridor where the 
security trolls were pacing, and Hermione was 
walking toward them. One look at her face convinced 
Harry that she had heard what had happened. His 
heart plummeted — had she told Professor 
McGonagall? 

“Come to have a good gloat?” said Ron savagely as 
she stopped in front of them. “Or have you just been 
to tell on us?” 

“No,” said Hermione. She was holding a letter in her 
hands and her lip was trembling. “I just thought you 
ought to know ... Hagrid lost his case. Buckbeak is 
going to be executed.” 



Page | 324 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 






THE QUIDDITCH FINAL 

“He — he sent me this,” Hermione said, holding out 
the letter. 

Harry took it. The parchment was damp, and 
enormous teardrops had smudged the ink so badly in 
places that it was very difficult to read. 

Dear Hermione, 

We lost I’m allowed to bring him back to Hogwarts. 
Execution date to be fixed. 

Beaky has enjoyed London. 

I won’t forget all the help you gave us. 

Hagrid 

“They can’t do this,” said Harry. “They can’t. 
Buckbeak isn’t dangerous.” 



Page | 325 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



“Malfoy’s dad’s frightened the Committee into it,” said 
Hermione, wiping her eyes. “You know what he’s like. 
They’re a bunch of doddery old fools, and they were 
scared. There’ll be an appeal, though, there always is. 
Only I can’t see any hope. ... Nothing will have 
changed.” 

“Yeah, it will,” said Ron fiercely. “You won’t have to do 
all the work alone this time, Hermione. I’ll help.” 

“Oh, Ron!” 

Hermione flung her arms around Ron’s neck and 
broke down completely. Ron, looking quite terrified, 
patted her very awkwardly on the top of the head. 
Finally, Hermione drew away. 

“Ron, I’m really, really sorry about Scabbers ... ,” she 
sobbed. 

“Oh — well — he was old,” said Ron, looking 
thoroughly relieved that she had let go of him. “And 
he was a bit useless. You never know, Mum and Dad 
might get me an owl now.” 

The safety measures imposed on the students since 
Black’s second break-in made it impossible for Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione to go and visit Hagrid in the 
evenings. Their only chance of talking to him was 
during Care of Magical Creatures lessons. 

He seemed numb with shock at the verdict. 

“S’all my fault. Got all tongue-tied. They was all sittin’ 
there in black robes an’ I kep’ droppin’ me notes and 
forgettin’ all them dates yeh looked up fer me, 
Hermione. An’ then Lucius Malfoy stood up an’ said 
his bit, and the Committee jus’ did exac’ly what he 
told ’em. ...” 

Page | 326 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“There’s still the appeal!” said Ron fiercely. “Don’t give 
up yet, we’re working on it!” 

They were walking back up to the castle with the rest 
of the class. Ahead they could see Malfoy, who was 
walking with Crabbe and Goyle, and kept looking 
back, laughing derisively. 

“S’no good, Ron,” said Hagrid sadly as they reached 
the castle steps. “That Committee’s in Lucius Malfoy ’s 
pocket. I’m jus’ gonna make sure the rest o’ Beaky’s 
time is the happiest he’s ever had. I owe him that. ...” 

Hagrid turned around and hurried back toward his 
cabin, his face buried in his handkerchief. 

“Look at him blubber!” 

Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle had been standing just 
inside the castle doors, listening. 

“Have you ever seen anything quite as pathetic?” said 
Malfoy. “And he’s supposed to be our teacher!” 

Harry and Ron both made furious moves toward 
Malfoy, but Hermione got there first — SMACK! 

She had slapped Malfoy across the face with all the 
strength she could muster. Malfoy staggered. Harry, 
Ron, Crabbe, and Goyle stood flabbergasted as 
Hermione raised her hand again. 

“Don’t you dare call Hagrid pathetic, you foul — you 
evil — ” 

“Hermione!” said Ron weakly, and he tried to grab her 
hand as she swung it back. 

“Get off, Ron!” 

Page | 327 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione pulled out her wand. Malfoy stepped 
backward. Crabbe and Goyle looked at him for 
instructions, thoroughly bewildered. 

“C’mon,” Malfoy muttered, and in a moment, all three 
of them had disappeared into the passageway to the 
dungeons. 

“Hermionel” Ron said again, sounding both stunned 
and impressed. 

“Harry, you’d better beat him in the Quidditch final!” 
Hermione said shrilly. “You just better had, because I 
can’t stand it if Slytherin wins!” 

“We’re due in Charms,” said Ron, still goggling at 
Hermione. “We’d better go.” 

They hurried up the marble staircase toward 
Professor Flitwick’s classroom. 

“You’re late, boys!” said Professor Flitwick reprovingly 
as Harry opened the classroom door. “Come along, 
quickly, wands out, we’re experimenting with 
Cheering Charms today, we’ve already divided into 
pairs — ” 

Harry and Ron hurried to a desk at the back and 
opened their bags. Ron looked behind him. 

“Where’s Hermione gone?” 

Harry looked around too. Hermione hadn’t entered 
the classroom, yet Harry knew she had been right 
next to him when he had opened the door. 

“That’s weird,” said Harry, staring at Ron. “Maybe — 
maybe she went to the bathroom or something?” 



Page | 328 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




But Hermione didn’t turn up all lesson. 

“She could’ve done with a Cheering Charm on her 
too,” said Ron as the class left for lunch, all grinning 
broadly — the Cheering Charms had left them with a 
feeling of great contentment. 

Hermione wasn’t at lunch either. By the time they 
had finished their apple pie, the after-effects of the 
Cheering Charms were wearing off, and Harry and 
Ron had started to get slightly worried. 

“You don’t think Malfoy did something to her?” Ron 
said anxiously as they hurried upstairs toward 
Gryffindor Tower. 

They passed the security trolls, gave the Fat Lady the 
password (“Flibbertigibbet”), and scrambled through 
the portrait hole into the common room. 

Hermione was sitting at a table, fast asleep, her head 
resting on an open Arithmancy book. They went to sit 
down on either side of her. Harry prodded her awake. 

“Wh — what?” said Hermione, waking with a start 
and staring wildly around. “Is it time to go? W — 
which lesson have we got now? 

“Divination, but it’s not for another twenty minutes,” 
said Harry. “Hermione, why didn’t you come to 
Charms?” 

“What? Oh no!” Hermione squeaked. “I forgot to go to 
Charms!” 

“But how could you forget?” said Harry. “You were 
with us till we were right outside the classroom!” 



Page | 329 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“I don’t believe it!” Hermione wailed. “Was Professor 
Flitwick angry? Oh, it was Malfoy, I was thinking 
about him and I lost track of things!” 

“You know what, Hermione?” said Ron, looking down 
at the enormous Arithmancy book Hermione had 
been using as a pillow. “I reckon you’re cracking up. 
You’re trying to do too much.” 

“No, I’m not!” said Hermione, brushing her hair out of 
her eyes and staring hopelessly around for her bag. “I 
just made a mistake, that’s all! I’d better go and see 
Professor Flitwick and say sorry. ... I’ll see you in 
Divination!” 

Hermione joined them at the foot of the ladder to 
Professor Trelawney’s classroom twenty minutes later, 
looking extremely harassed. 

“I can’t believe I missed Cheering Charms! And I bet 
they come up in our exams; Professor Flitwick hinted 
they might!” 

Together they climbed the ladder into the dim, stifling 
tower room. Glowing on every little table was a crystal 
ball full of pearly white mist. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione sat down together at the same rickety table. 

“I thought we weren’t starting crystal balls until next 
term,” Ron muttered, casting a wary eye around for 
Professor Trelawney, in case she was lurking nearby. 

“Don’t complain, this means we’ve finished 
palmistry,” Harry muttered back. “I was getting sick 
of her flinching every time she looked at my hands.” 

“Good day to you!” said the familiar, misty voice, and 
Professor Trelawney made her usual dramatic 
entrance out of the shadows. Parvati and Lavender 

Page | 330 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




quivered with excitement, their faces lit by the milky 
glow of their crystal ball. 



“I have decided to introduce the crystal ball a little 
earlier than I had planned,” said Professor Trelawney, 
sitting with her back to the fire and gazing around. 
“The fates have informed me that your examination in 
June will concern the Orb, and I am anxious to give 
you sufficient practice.” 

Hermione snorted. 

“Well, honestly ... ‘the fates have informed her’ ... who 
sets the exam? She does! What an amazing 
prediction!” she said, not troubling to keep her voice 
low. Harry and Ron choked back laughs. 

It was hard to tell whether Professor Trelawney had 
heard them, as her face was hidden in shadow. She 
continued, however, as though she had not. 

“Crystal gazing is a particularly refined art,” she said 
dreamily. “I do not expect any of you to See when first 
you peer into the Orb’s infinite depths. We shall start 
by practicing relaxing the conscious mind and 
external eyes” — Ron began to snigger uncontrollably 
and had to stuff his fist in his mouth to stifle the 
noise — “so as to clear the Inner Eye and the 
superconscious. Perhaps, if we are lucky, some of you 
will See before the end of the class.” 

And so they began. Harry, at least, felt extremely 
foolish, staring blankly at the crystal ball, trying to 
keep his mind empty when thoughts such as “this is 
stupid” kept drifting across it. It didn’t help that Ron 
kept breaking into silent giggles and Hermione kept 
tutting. 



Page | 331 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Seen anything yet?” Harry asked them after a 
quarter of an hour’s quiet crystal gazing. 

“Yeah, there’s a burn on this table,” said Ron, 
pointing. “Someone’s spilled their candle.” 

“This is such a waste of time,” Hermione hissed. “I 
could be practicing something useful. I could be 
catching up on Cheering Charms — ” 

Professor Trelawney rustled past. 

“Would anyone like me to help them interpret the 
shadowy portents within their Orb?” she murmured 
over the clinking of her bangles. 

“I don’t need help,” Ron whispered. “It’s obvious what 
this means. There’s going to be loads of fog tonight.” 

Both Harry and Hermione burst out laughing. 

“Now, really!” said Professor Trelawney as everyone’s 
heads turned in their direction. Parvati and Lavender 
were looking scandalized. “You are disturbing the 
clairvoyant vibrations!” She approached their table 
and peered into their crystal ball. Harry felt his heart 
sinking. He was sure he knew what was coming — 

“There is something here!” Professor Trelawney 
whispered, lowering her face to the ball, so that it was 
reflected twice in her huge glasses. “Something 
moving . . . but what is it?” 

Harry was prepared to bet everything he owned, 
including his Firebolt, that it wasn’t good news, 
whatever it was. And sure enough — 

“My dear ... ,” Professor Trelawney breathed, gazing 
up at Harry. “It is here, plainer than ever before ... my 

Page | 332 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




dear, stalking toward you, growing ever closer ... the 
Gr — ” 



“Oh, for goodness’ sake!” said Hermione loudly. “Not 
that ridiculous Grim again\” 

Professor Trelawney raised her enormous eyes to 
Hermione ’s face. Parvati whispered something to 
Lavender, and they both glared at Hermione too. 
Professor Trelawney stood up, surveying Hermione 
with unmistakable anger. 

“I am sorry to say that from the moment you have 
arrived in this class, my dear, it has been apparent 
that you do not have what the noble art of Divination 
requires. Indeed, I don’t remember ever meeting a 
student whose mind was so hopelessly mundane.” 

There was a moment’s silence. Then — 

“Fine!” said Hermione suddenly, getting up and 
cramming Unfogging the Future back into her bag. 
“Fine!” she repeated, swinging the bag over her 
shoulder and almost knocking Ron off his chair. “I 
give up! I’m leaving!” 

And to the whole class’s amazement, Hermione strode 
over to the trapdoor, kicked it open, and climbed 
down the ladder out of sight. 

It took a few minutes for the class to settle down 
again. Professor Trelawney seemed to have forgotten 
all about the Grim. She turned abruptly from Harry 
and Ron’s table, breathing rather heavily as she 
tugged her gauzy shawl more closely to her. 

“Ooooo!” said Lavender suddenly, making everyone 
start. “Oooooo, Professor Trelawney, I’ve just 
remembered! You saw her leaving, didn’t you? Didn’t 

Page | 333 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




you, Professor? ‘Around Easter, one of our number will 
leave us forever*.’ You said it ages ago, Professor!” 

Professor Trelawney gave her a dewy smile. 

“Yes, my dear, I did indeed know that Miss Granger 
would be leaving us. One hopes, however, that one 
might have mistaken the Signs. ... The Inner Eye can 
be a burden, you know. ...” 

Lavender and Parvati looked deeply impressed, and 
moved over so that Professor Trelawney could join 
their table instead. 

“Some day Hermione’s having, eh?” Ron muttered to 
Harry, looking awed. 

“Yeah ...” 

Harry glanced into the crystal ball but saw nothing 
but swirling white mist. Had Professor Trelawney 
really seen the Grim again? Would he? The last thing 
he needed was another near-fatal accident, with the 
Quidditch final drawing ever nearer. 

The Easter holidays were not exactly relaxing. The 
third years had never had so much homework. Neville 
Longbottom seemed close to a nervous collapse, and 
he wasn’t the only one. 

“Call this a holiday!” Seamus Finnigan roared at the 
common room one afternoon. “The exams are ages 
away, what’re they playing at?” 

But nobody had as much to do as Hermione. Even 
without Divination, she was taking more subjects 
than anybody else. She was usually last to leave the 
common room at night, first to arrive at the library 



Page | 334 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




the next morning; she had shadows like Lupin’s 
under her eyes, and seemed constantly close to tears. 

Ron had taken over responsibility for Buckbeak’s 
appeal. When he wasn’t doing his own work, he was 
poring over enormously thick volumes with names 
like The Handbook of Hippogriff Psychology and Fowl 
or Foul? A Study of Hippogriff Brutality. He was so 
absorbed, he even forgot to be horrible to 
Crookshanks. 

Harry, meanwhile, had to fit in his homework around 
Quidditch practice every day, not to mention endless 
discussions of tactics with Wood. The Gryffindor- 
Slytherin match would take place on the first 
Saturday after the Easter holidays. Slytherin was 
leading the tournament by exactly two hundred 
points. This meant (as Wood constantly reminded his 
team) that they needed to win the match by more 
than that amount to win the Cup. It also meant that 
the burden of winning fell largely on Harry, because 
capturing the Snitch was worth one hundred and fifty 
points. 

“So you must catch it only if we’re more than fifty 
points up,” Wood told Harry constantly. “Only if we’re 
more than fifty points up, Harry, or we win the match 
but lose the Cup. You’ve got that, haven’t you? You 
must catch the Snitch only if we’re — ” 

“I KNOW, OLIVER!” Harry yelled. 

The whole of Gryffindor House was obsessed with the 
coming match. Gryffindor hadn’t won the Quidditch 
Cup since the legendary Charlie Weasley (Ron’s 
second oldest brother) had been Seeker. But Harry 
doubted whether any of them, even Wood, wanted to 
win as much as he did. The enmity between Harry 
and Malfoy was at its highest point ever. Malfoy was 
Page | 335 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




still smarting about the mud-throwing incident in 
Hogsmeade and was even more furious that Harry 
had somehow wormed his way out of punishment. 
Harry hadn’t forgotten Malfoy’s attempt to sabotage 
him in the match against Ravenclaw, but it was the 
matter of Buckbeak that made him most determined 
to beat Malfoy in front of the entire school. 

Never, in anyone’s memory, had a match approached 
in such a highly charged atmosphere. By the time the 
holidays were over, tension between the two teams 
and their Houses was at the breaking point. A 
number of small scuffles broke out in the corridors, 
culminating in a nasty incident in which a Gryffindor 
fourth year and a Slytherin sixth year ended up in the 
hospital wing with leeks sprouting out of their ears. 

Harry was having a particularly bad time of it. He 
couldn’t walk to class without Slytherins sticking out 
their legs and trying to trip him up; Crabbe and Goyle 
kept popping up wherever he went, and slouching 
away looking disappointed when they saw him 
surrounded by people. Wood had given instructions 
that Harry should be accompanied everywhere he 
went, in case the Slytherins tried to put him out of 
action. The whole of Gryffindor House took up the 
challenge enthusiastically, so that it was impossible 
for Harry to get to classes on time because he was 
surrounded by a vast, chattering crowd. Harry was 
more concerned for his Firebolt’s safety than his own. 
When he wasn’t flying it, he locked it securely in his 
trunk and frequently dashed back up to Gryffindor 
Tower at break times to check that it was still there. 

All usual pursuits were abandoned in the Gryffindor 
common room the night before the match. Even 
Hermione had put down her books. 

“I can’t work, I can’t concentrate,” she said nervously. 

Page | 336 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




There was a great deal of noise. Fred and George 
Weasley were dealing with the pressure by being 
louder and more exuberant than ever. Oliver Wood 
was crouched over a model of a Quidditch field in the 
corner, prodding little figures across it with his wand 
and muttering to himself. Angelina, Alicia, and Katie 
were laughing at Fred’s and George’s jokes. Harry was 
sitting with Ron and Hermione, removed from the 
center of things, trying not to think about the next 
day, because every time he did, he had the horrible 
sensation that something very large was fighting to 
get out of his stomach. 

“You’re going to be fine,” Hermione told him, though 
she looked positively terrified. 

“You’ve got a Firebolti” said Ron. 

“Yeah ... ,” said Harry, his stomach writhing. 

It came as a relief when Wood suddenly stood up and 
yelled, “Team! Bed!” 



Harry slept badly. First he dreamed that he had 
overslept, and that Wood was yelling, “Where were 
you? We had to use Neville instead!” Then he dreamed 
that Malfoy and the rest of the Slytherin team arrived 
for the match riding dragons. He was flying at 
breakneck speed, trying to avoid a spurt of flames 
from Malfoy ’s steed’s mouth, when he realized he had 
forgotten his Firebolt. He fell through the air and 
woke with a start. 

It was a few seconds before Harry remembered that 
the match hadn’t taken place yet, that he was safe in 
bed, and that the Slytherin team definitely wouldn’t 
be allowed to play on dragons. He was feeling very 

Page | 337 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




thirsty. Quietly as he could, he got out of his four- 
poster and went to pour himself some water from the 
silver jug beneath the window. 

The grounds were still and quiet. No breath of wind 
disturbed the treetops in the Forbidden Forest; the 
Whomping Willow was motionless and innocent- 
looking. It looked as though the conditions for the 
match would be perfect. 

Harry set down his goblet and was about to turn back 
to his bed when something caught his eye. An animal 
of some kind was prowling across the silvery lawn. 

Harry dashed to his bedside table, snatched up his 
glasses, and put them on, then hurried back to the 
window. It couldn’t be the Grim — not now — not 
right before the match — 

He peered out at the grounds again and, after a 
minute’s frantic searching, spotted it. It was skirting 
the edge of the forest now. ... It wasn’t the Grim at all 
...it was a cat. ... Harry clutched the window ledge in 
relief as he recognized the bottlebrush tail. It was only 
Crookshanks. ... 

Or was it only Crookshanks? Harry squinted, 
pressing his nose flat against the glass. Crookshanks 
seemed to have come to a halt. Harry was sure he 
could see something else moving in the shadow of the 
trees too. 

And just then, it emerged — a gigantic, shaggy black 
dog, moving stealthily across the lawn, Crookshanks 
trotting at its side. Harry stared. What did this mean? 
If Crookshanks could see the dog as well, how could it 
be an omen of Harry’s death? 

“Ron!” Harry hissed. “Ron! Wake up!” 

Page | 338 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Huh?” 



“I need you to tell me if you can see something!” 

“S’all dark, Harry,” Ron muttered thickly. “What’re 
you on about?” 

“Down here — ” 

Harry looked quickly back out of the window. 

Crookshanks and the dog had vanished. Harry 
climbed onto the windowsill to look right down into 
the shadows of the castle, but they weren’t there. 
Where had they gone? 

A loud snore told him Ron had fallen asleep again. 

Harry and the rest of the Gryffindor team entered the 
Great Hall the next day to enormous applause. Harry 
couldn’t help grinning broadly as he saw that both 
the Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff tables were applauding 
them too. The Slytherin table hissed loudly as they 
passed. Harry noticed that Malfoy looked even paler 
than usual. 

Wood spent the whole of breakfast urging his team to 
eat, while touching nothing himself. Then he hurried 
them off to the field before anyone else had finished, 
so they could get an idea of the conditions. As they 
left the Great Hall, everyone applauded again. 

“Good luck, Harry!” called Cho. Harry felt himself 
blushing. 

“Okay — no wind to speak of — sun’s a bit bright, 
that could impair your vision, watch out for it — 

ground’s fairly hard, good, that’ll give us a fast kickoff 
?? 

Page | 339 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Wood paced the field, staring around with the team 
behind him. Finally, they saw the front doors of the 
castle open in the distance and the rest of the school 
spilling onto the lawn. 

“Locker rooms,” said Wood tersely. 

None of them spoke as they changed into their scarlet 
robes. Harry wondered if they were feeling like he 
was: as though he’d eaten something extremely 
wriggly for breakfast. In what seemed like no time at 
all, Wood was saying, “Okay, it’s time, let’s go — ” 

They walked out onto the field to a tidal wave of noise. 
Three-quarters of the crowd was wearing scarlet 
rosettes, waving scarlet flags with the Gryffindor lion 
upon them, or brandishing banners with slogans like 
“GO GRYFFINDOR!” and “LIONS FOR THE CUP!” 
Behind the Slytherin goal posts, however, two 
hundred people were wearing green; the silver serpent 
of Slytherin glittered on their flags, and Professor 
Snape sat in the very front row, wearing green like 
everyone else, and a very grim smile. 

“And here are the Gryffindors!” yelled Lee Jordan, 
who was acting as commentator as usual. “Potter, 

Bell, Johnson, Spinnet, Weasley, Weasley, and Wood. 
Widely acknowledged as the best team Hogwarts has 
seen in a good few years — ” 

Lee’s comments were drowned by a tide of “boos” from 
the Slytherin end. 

“And here come the Slytherin team, led by Captain 
Flint. He’s made some changes in the lineup and 
seems to be going for size rather than skill — ” 

More boos from the Slytherin crowd. Harry, however, 
thought Lee had a point. Malfoy was easily the 

Page | 340 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




smallest person on the Slytherin team; the rest of 
them were enormous. 



“Captains, shake hands!” said Madam Hooch. 

Flint and Wood approached each other and grasped 
each other’s hand very tightly; it looked as though 
each was trying to break the other’s fingers. 

“Mount your brooms!” said Madam Hooch. “Three ... 
two ... one ...” 

The sound of her whistle was lost in the roar from the 
crowd as fourteen brooms rose into the air. Harry felt 
his hair fly back off his forehead; his nerves left him 
in the thrill of the flight; he glanced around, saw 
Malfoy on his tail, and sped off in search of the 
Snitch. 

“And it’s Gryffindor in possession, Alicia Spinnet of 
Gryffindor with the Quaffle, heading straight for the 
Slytherin goal posts, looking good, Alicia! Argh, no — 
Quaffle intercepted by Warrington, Warrington of 
Slytherin tearing up the field — WHAM! — nice 
Bludger work there by George Weasley, Warrington 
drops the Quaffle, it’s caught by — Johnson, 
Gryffindor back in possession, come on, Angelina — 
nice swerve around Montague — duck, Angelina, 
that’s a Bludger] — SHE SCORES! TEN-ZERO TO 
GRYFFINDOR!” 

Angelina punched the air as she soared around the 
end of the field; the sea of scarlet below was 
screaming its delight — 

“OUCH!” 

Angelina was nearly thrown from her broom as 
Marcus Flint went smashing into her. 

Page | 341 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Sorry!” said Flint as the crowd below booed. “Sorry, 
didn’t see her!” 

A moment later, Fred Weasley chucked his Beater’s 
club at the back of Flint’s head. Flint’s nose smashed 
into the handle of his broom and began to bleed. 

“That will do!” shrieked Madam Hooch, zooming 
between them. “Penalty shot to Gryffindor for an 
unprovoked attack on their Chaser! Penalty shot to 
Slytherin for deliberate damage to their Chaser!” 

“Come off it, Miss!” howled Fred, but Madam Hooch 
blew her whistle and Alicia flew forward to take the 
penalty. 

“Come on, Alicia!” yelled Lee into the silence that had 
descended on the crowd. “YES! SHE’S BEATEN THE 
KEEPER! TWENTY-ZERO TO GRYFFINDOR!” 

Harry turned the Firebolt sharply to watch Flint, still 
bleeding freely, fly forward to take the Slytherin 
penalty. Wood was hovering in front of the Gryffindor 
goal posts, his jaw clenched. 

“ ’Course, Wood’s a superb Keeper!” Lee Jordan told 
the crowd as Flint waited for Madam Hooch’s whistle. 
“Superb! Very difficult to pass — very difficult indeed 

— YES! I DONT BELIEVE IT! HE’S SAVED IT!” 

Relieved, Harry zoomed away, gazing around for the 
Snitch, but still making sure he caught every word of 
Lee’s commentary. It was essential that he hold 
Malfoy off the Snitch until Gryffindor was more than 
fifty points up — 

“Gryffindor in possession, no, Slytherin in possession 

— no! — Gryffindor back in possession and it’s Katie 



Page | 342 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Bell, Katie Bell for Gryffindor with the Quaffle, she’s 
streaking up the field — THAT WAS DELIBERATE!” 



Montague, a Slytherin Chaser, had swerved in front of 
Katie, and instead of seizing the Quaffle had grabbed 
her head. Katie cartwheeled in the air, managed to 
stay on her broom, but dropped the Quaffle. 

Madam Hooch’s whistle rang out again as she soared 
over to Montague and began shouting at him. A 
minute later, Katie had put another penalty past the 
Slytherin Seeker. 

“THIRTY-ZERO! TAKE THAT, YOU DIRTY, CHEATING 



“Jordan, if you can’t commentate in an unbiased way 

— !” 

“I’m telling it like it is, Professor!” 

Harry felt a huge jolt of excitement. He had seen the 
Snitch — it was shimmering at the foot of one of the 
Gryffindor goal posts — but he mustn’t catch it yet — 
and if Malfoy saw it — 

Faking a look of sudden concentration, Harry pulled 
his Firebolt around and sped off toward the Slytherin 
end — it worked. Malfoy went haring after him, 
clearly thinking Harry had seen the Snitch there. ... 

WHOOSH. 

One of the Bludgers came streaking past Harry’s right 
ear, hit by the gigantic Slytherin Beater, Derrick. 

Then again — 

WHOOSH. 

Page | 343 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




The second Bludger grazed Harry’s elbow. The other 
Beater, Bole, was closing in. 

Harry had a fleeting glimpse of Bole and Derrick 
zooming toward him, clubs raised — 

He turned the Firebolt upward at the last second, and 
Bole and Derrick collided with a sickening crunch. 

“Ha haaa!” yelled Lee Jordan as the Slytherin Beaters 
lurched away from each other, clutching their heads. 
“Too bad, boys! You’ll need to get up earlier than that 
to beat a Firebolt! And it’s Gryffindor in possession 
again, as Johnson takes the Quaffle — Flint alongside 
her — poke him in the eye, Angelina! — it was a joke, 
Professor, it was a joke — oh no — Flint in 
possession, Flint flying toward the Gryffindor goal 
posts, come on now, Wood, save — !” 

But Flint had scored; there was an eruption of cheers 
from the Slytherin end, and Lee swore so badly that 
Professor McGonagall tried to tug the magical 
megaphone away from him. 

“Sorry, Professor, sorry! Won’t happen again! So, 
Gryffindor in the lead, thirty points to ten, and 
Gryffindor in possession — ” 

It was turning into the dirtiest game Harry had ever 
played in. Enraged that Gryffindor had taken such an 
early lead, the Slytherins were rapidly resorting to any 
means to take the Quaffle. Bole hit Alicia with his 
club and tried to say he’d thought she was a Bludger. 
George Weasley elbowed Bole in the face in 
retaliation. Madam Hooch awarded both teams 
penalties, and Wood pulled off another spectacular 
save, making the score forty-ten to Gryffindor. 



Page | 344 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




The Snitch had disappeared again. Malfoy was still 
keeping close to Harry as he soared over the match, 
looking around for it — once Gryffindor was fifty 
points ahead — 

Katie scored. Fifty-ten. Fred and George Weasley were 
swooping around her, clubs raised, in case any of the 
Slytherins were thinking of revenge. Bole and Derrick 
took advantage of Fred’s and George’s absence to aim 
both Bludgers at Wood; they caught him in the 
stomach, one after the other, and he rolled over in the 
air, clutching his broom, completely winded. 

Madam Hooch was beside herself. 

“YOU DO NOT ATTACK THE KEEPER UNLESS THE 
QUAFFLE IS WITHIN THE SCORING AREA!” she 
shrieked at Bole and Derrick. “Gryffindor penalty!” 

And Angelina scored. Sixty-ten. Moments later, Fred 
Weasley pelted a Bludger at Warrington, knocking the 
Quaffle out of his hands; Alicia seized it and put it 
through the Slytherin goal — seventy-ten. 

The Gryffindor crowd below was screaming itself 
hoarse — Gryffindor was sixty points in the lead, and 
if Harry caught the Snitch now, the Cup was theirs. 
Harry could almost feel hundreds of eyes following 
him as he soared around the field, high above the rest 
of the game, with Malfoy speeding along behind him. 

And then he saw it. The Snitch was sparkling twenty 
feet above him. 

Harry put on a huge burst of speed; the wind was 
roaring in his ears; he stretched out his hand, but 
suddenly, the Firebolt was slowing down — 



Page | 345 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Horrified, he looked around. Malfoy had thrown 
himself forward, grabbed hold of the Firebolt’s tail, 
and was pulling it back. 

“You — ” 

Harry was angry enough to hit Malfoy, but couldn’t 
reach — Malfoy was panting with the effort of holding 
onto the Firebolt, but his eyes were sparkling 
maliciously. He had achieved what he’d wanted to do 
— the Snitch had disappeared again. 

“Penalty! Penalty to Gryffindor! I’ve never seen such 
tactics!” Madam Hooch screeched, shooting up to 
where Malfoy was sliding back onto his Nimbus Two 
Thousand and One. 

“YOU CHEATING SCUM!” Lee Jordan was howling 
into the megaphone, dancing out of Professor 
McGonagall’s reach. “YOU FILTHY, CHEATING B — ” 

Professor McGonagall didn’t even bother to tell him 
off. She was actually shaking her finger in Malfoy’s 
direction, her hat had fallen off, and she too was 
shouting furiously. 

Alicia took Gryffindor’s penalty, but she was so angry 
she missed by several feet. The Gryffindor team was 
losing concentration and the Slytherins, delighted by 
Malfoy’s foul on Harry, were being spurred on to 
greater heights. 

“Slytherin in possession, Slytherin heading for goal — 
Montague scores — ” Lee groaned. “Seventy-twenty to 
Gryffindor. ...” 

Harry was now marking Malfoy so closely their knees 
kept hitting each other. Harry wasn’t going to let 
Malfoy anywhere near the Snitch. ... 

Page | 346 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Get out of it, Potter!” Malfoy yelled in frustration as 
he tried to turn and found Harry blocking him. 

“Angelina Johnson gets the Quaffle for Gryffindor, 
come on, Angelina, COME ON!” 

Harry looked around. Every single Slytherin player 
apart from Malfoy was streaking up the pitch toward 
Angelina, including the Slytherin Keeper — they were 
all going to block her — 

Harry wheeled the Firebolt around, bent so low he 
was lying flat along the handle, and kicked it forward. 
Like a bullet, he shot toward the Slytherins. 

“AAAAAAARRRGH ! ” 

They scattered as the Firebolt zoomed toward them; 
Angelina’s way was clear. 

“SHE SCORES! SHE SCORES! Gryffindor leads by 
eighty points to twenty!” 

Harry, who had almost pelted headlong into the 
stands, skidded to a halt in midair, reversed, and 
zoomed back into the middle of the field. 

And then he saw something to make his heart stand 
still. Malfoy was diving, a look of triumph on his face 
— there, a few feet above the grass below, was a tiny, 
golden glimmer — 

Harry urged the Firebolt downward, but Malfoy was 
miles ahead — 

“Go! Go! Go!” Harry urged his broom. He was gaining 
on Malfoy — Harry flattened himself to the broom 
handle as Bole sent a Bludger at him — he was at 
Malfoy’s ankles — he was level — 

Page | 347 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry threw himself forward, took both hands off his 
broom. He knocked Malfoy’s arm out of the way and 



“YES!” 

He pulled out of his dive, his hand in the air, and the 
stadium exploded. Harry soared above the crowd, an 
odd ringing in his ears. The tiny golden ball was held 
tight in his fist, beating its wings hopelessly against 
his fingers. 

Then Wood was speeding toward him, half-blinded by 
tears; he seized Harry around the neck and sobbed 
unrestrainedly into his shoulder. Harry felt two large 
thumps as Fred and George hit them; then 
Angelina’s, Alicia’s, and Katie’s voices, “We’ve won the 
Cup\ We’ve won the Cup\” Tangled together in a 
many-armed hug, the Gryffindor team sank, yelling 
hoarsely, back to earth. 

Wave upon wave of crimson supporters was pouring 
over the barriers onto the field. Hands were raining 
down on their backs. Harry had a confused 
impression of noise and bodies pressing in on him. 
Then he, and the rest of the team, were hoisted onto 
the shoulders of the crowd. Thrust into the light, he 
saw Hagrid, plastered with crimson rosettes — “Yeh 
beat ’em, Harry, yeh beat ’em! Wait till I tell 
Buckbeak!” There was Percy, jumping up and down 
like a maniac, all dignity forgotten. Professor 
McGonagall was sobbing harder even than Wood, 
wiping her eyes with an enormous Gryffindor flag; 
and there, fighting their way toward Harry, were Ron 
and Hermione. Words failed them. They simply 
beamed as Harry was borne toward the stands, where 
Dumbledore stood waiting with the enormous 
Quidditch Cup. 



Page | 348 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




If only there had been a dementor around. ... As a 
sobbing Wood passed Harry the Cup, as he lifted it 
into the air, Harry felt he could have produced the 
world’s best Patronus. 



Page | 349 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 






PROFESSOR TRELAWNEY’S 
PREDICTION 

Harry’s euphoria at finally winning the Quidditch Cup 
lasted at least a week. Even the weather seemed to be 
celebrating; as June approached, the days became 
cloudless and sultry, and all anybody felt like doing 
was strolling onto the grounds and flopping down on 
the grass with several pints of iced pumpkin juice, 
perhaps playing a casual game of Gobstones or 
watching the giant squid propel itself dreamily across 
the surface of the lake. 

But they couldn’t. Exams were nearly upon them, and 
instead of lazing around outside, the students were 
forced to remain inside the castle, trying to bully their 
brains into concentrating while enticing wafts of 
summer air drifted in through the windows. Even 
Fred and George Weasley had been spotted working; 
they were about to take their O.W.L.s (Ordinary 
Wizarding Levels). Percy was getting ready to take his 
N.E.W.T.s (Nastily Exhausting Wizarding Tests), the 
highest qualification Hogwarts offered. As Percy 

Page | 350 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



hoped to enter the Ministry of Magic, he needed top 
grades. He was becoming increasingly edgy, and gave 
very severe punishments to anybody who disturbed 
the quiet of the common room in the evenings. In fact, 
the only person who seemed more anxious than Percy 
was Hermione. 

Harry and Ron had given up asking her how she was 
managing to attend several classes at once, but they 
couldn’t restrain themselves when they saw the exam 
schedule she had drawn up for herself. The first 
column read: 

Monday 

9 o’clock, Arithmancy 
9 o’clock, Transfiguration 
Lunch 

1 o’clock, Charms 
1 o’clock, Ancient Runes 

“Hermione?” Ron said cautiously, because she was 
liable to explode when interrupted these days. “Er — 
are you sure you’ve copied down these times right?” 

“What?” snapped Hermione, picking up the exam 
schedule and examining it. “Yes, of course I have.” 

“Is there any point asking how you’re going to sit for 
two exams at once?” said Harry. 

“No,” said Hermione shortly. “Have either of you seen 
my copy of Numerology and Gramatica?” 



Page | 351 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh, yeah, I borrowed it for a bit of bedtime reading,” 
said Ron, but very quietly. Hermione started shifting 
heaps of parchment around on her table, looking for 
the book. Just then, there was a rustle at the window 
and Hedwig fluttered through it, a note clutched tight 
in her beak. 

“It’s from Hagrid,” said Harry, ripping the note open. 
“Buckbeak’s appeal — it’s set for the sixth.” 

“That’s the day we finish our exams,” said Hermione, 
still looking everywhere for her Arithmancy book. 

“And they’re coming up here to do it,” said Harry, still 
reading from the letter. “Someone from the Ministry of 
Magic and — and an executioner.” 

Hermione looked up, startled. 

“They’re bringing the executioner to the appeal! But 
that sounds as though they’ve already decided!” 

“Yeah, it does,” said Harry slowly. 

“They can’t!” Ron howled. “I’ve spent ages reading up 
on stuff for him; they can’t just ignore it all!” 

But Harry had a horrible feeling that the Committee 
for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures had had its 
mind made up for it by Mr. Malfoy. Draco, who had 
been noticeably subdued since Gryffindor’s triumph 
in the Quidditch final, seemed to regain some of his 
old swagger over the next few days. From sneering 
comments Harry overheard, Malfoy was certain 
Buckbeak was going to be killed, and seemed 
thoroughly pleased with himself for bringing it about. 
It was all Harry could do to stop himself imitating 
Hermione and hitting Malfoy in the face on these 
occasions. And the worst thing of all was that they 
Page | 352 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




had no time or opportunity to go and see Hagrid, 
because the strict new security measures had not 
been lifted, and Harry didn’t dare retrieve his 
Invisibility Cloak from below the one-eyed witch. 

k k k 



Exam week began and an unnatural hush fell over 
the castle. The third years emerged from 
Transfiguration at lunchtime on Monday, limp and 
ashen-faced, comparing results and bemoaning the 
difficulty of the tasks they had been set, which had 
included turning a teapot into a tortoise. Hermione 
irritated the rest by fussing about how her tortoise 
had looked more like a turtle, which was the least of 
everyone else’s worries. 

“Mine still had a spout for a tail, what a nightmare. 



“Were the tortoises supposed to breathe steam?” 

“It still had a willow-patterned shell, d’you think 
that 11 count against me?” 

Then, after a hasty lunch, it was straight back 
upstairs for the Charms exam. Hermione had been 
right; Professor Flitwick did indeed test them on 
Cheering Charms. Harry slightly overdid his out of 
nerves and Ron, who was partnering him, ended up 
in fits of hysterical laughter and had to be led away to 
a quiet room for an hour before he was ready to 
perform the charm himself. After dinner, the students 
hurried back to their common rooms, not to relax, 
but to start studying for Care of Magical Creatures, 
Potions, and Astronomy. 



Page | 353 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid presided over the Care of Magical Creatures 
exam the following morning with a very preoccupied 
air indeed; his heart didn’t seem to be in it at all. He 
had provided a large tub of fresh flobberworms for the 
class, and told them that to pass the test, their 
flobberworm had to still be alive at the end of one 
hour. As flobberworms flourished best if left to their 
own devices, it was the easiest exam any of them had 
ever taken, and also gave Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
plenty of opportunity to speak to Hagrid. 

“Beaky’s gettin’ a bit depressed,” Hagrid told them, 
bending low on the pretense of checking that Harry’s 
flobberworm was still alive. “Bin cooped up too long. 
But still ... we’ll know day after tomorrow — one way 
or the other — ” 

They had Potions that afternoon, which was an 
unqualified disaster. Try as Harry might, he couldn’t 
get his Confusing Concoction to thicken, and Snape, 
standing watch with an air of vindictive pleasure, 
scribbled something that looked suspiciously like a 
zero onto his notes before moving away. 

Then came Astronomy at midnight, up on the tallest 
tower; History of Magic on Wednesday morning, in 
which Harry scribbled everything Florean Fortescue 
had ever told him about medieval witch-hunts, while 
wishing he could have had one of Fortescue ’s choco- 
nut sundaes with him in the stifling classroom. 
Wednesday afternoon meant Herbology, in the 
greenhouses under a baking-hot sun; then back to 
the common room once more, with sunburnt necks, 
thinking longingly of this time next day, when it 
would all be over. 

Their second to last exam, on Thursday morning, was 
Defense Against the Dark Arts. Professor Lupin had 
compiled the most unusual exam any of them had 

Page | 354 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




ever taken; a sort of obstacle course outside in the 
sun, where they had to wade across a deep paddling 
pool containing a grindylow, cross a series of potholes 
full of Red Caps, squish their way across a patch of 
marsh while ignoring misleading directions from a 
hinkypunk, then climb into an old trunk and battle 
with a new boggart. 

“Excellent, Harry,” Lupin muttered as Harry climbed 
out of the trunk, grinning. “Full marks.” 

Flushed with his success, Harry hung around to 
watch Ron and Hermione. Ron did very well until he 
reached the hinkypunk, which successfully confused 
him into sinking waist-high into the quagmire. 
Hermione did everything perfectly until she reached 
the trunk with the boggart in it. After about a minute 
inside it, she burst out again, screaming. 

“Hermione!” said Lupin, startled. “What’s the matter?” 

“P — P — Professor McGonagall!” Hermione gasped, 
pointing into the trunk. “Sh — she said I’d failed 
everything!” 

It took a little while to calm Hermione down. When at 
last she had regained a grip on herself, she, Harry, 
and Ron went back to the castle. Ron was still slightly 
inclined to laugh at Hermione ’s boggart, but an 
argument was averted by the sight that met them on 
the top of the steps. 

Cornelius Fudge, sweating slightly in his pinstriped 
cloak, was standing there staring out at the grounds. 
He started at the sight of Harry. 

“Hello there, Harry!” he said. “Just had an exam, I 
expect? Nearly finished?” 



Page | 355 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes,” said Harry. Hermione and Ron, not being on 
speaking terms with the Minister of Magic, hovered 
awkwardly in the background. 

“Lovely day,” said Fudge, casting an eye over the lake. 
“Pity ... pity ...” 

He sighed deeply and looked down at Harry. 

“I’m here on an unpleasant mission, Harry. The 
Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures 
required a witness to the execution of a mad 
hippogriff. As I needed to visit Hogwarts to check on 
the Black situation, I was asked to step in.” 

“Does that mean the appeal’s already happened?” Ron 
interrupted, stepping forward. 

“No, no, it’s scheduled for this afternoon,” said Fudge, 
looking curiously at Ron. 

“Then you might not have to witness an execution at 
all!” said Ron stoutly. “The hippogriff might get off!” 

Before Fudge could answer, two wizards came 
through the castle doors behind him. One was so 
ancient he appeared to be withering before their very 
eyes; the other was tall and strapping, with a thin 
black mustache. Harry gathered that they were 
representatives of the Committee for the Disposal of 
Dangerous Creatures, because the very old wizard 
squinted toward Hagrid’s cabin and said in a feeble 
voice, “Dear, dear, I’m getting too old for this. ... Two 
o’clock, isn’t it, Fudge?” 

The black-mustached man was fingering something in 
his belt; Harry looked and saw that he was running 
one broad thumb along the blade of a shining axe. 

Ron opened his mouth to say something, but 

Page | 356 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione nudged him hard in the ribs and jerked her 
head toward the entrance hall. 

“Why’d you stop me?” said Ron angrily as they 
entered the Great Hall for lunch. “Did you see them? 
They’ve even got the axe ready! This isn’t justice!” 

“Ron, your dad works for the Ministry, you can’t go 
saying things like that to his boss!” said Hermione, 
but she too looked very upset. “As long as Hagrid 
keeps his head this time, and argues his case 
properly, they can’t possibly execute Buckbeak. ...” 

But Harry could tell Hermione didn’t really believe 
what she was saying. All around them, people were 
talking excitedly as they ate their lunch, happily 
anticipating the end of the exams that afternoon, but 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione, lost in worry about Hagrid 
and Buckbeak, didn’t join in. 

Harry’s and Ron’s last exam was Divination; 
Hermione’s, Muggle Studies. They walked up the 
marble staircase together; Hermione left them on the 
first floor and Harry and Ron proceeded all the way 
up to the seventh, where many of their class were 
sitting on the spiral staircase to Professor Trelawney’s 
classroom, trying to cram in a bit of last-minute 
studying. 

“She’s seeing us all separately,” Neville informed them 
as they went to sit down next to him. He had his copy 
of Unfogging the Future open on his lap at the pages 
devoted to crystal gazing. “Have either of you ever 
seen anything in a crystal ball?” he asked them 
unhappily. 

“Nope,” said Ron in an offhand voice. He kept 
checking his watch; Harry knew that he was counting 
down the time until Buckbeak’s appeal started. 

Page | 357 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




The line of people outside the classroom shortened 
very slowly. As each person climbed back down the 
silver ladder, the rest of the class hissed, “What did 
she ask? Was it okay?” 

But they all refused to say. 

“She says the crystal ball’s told her that if I tell you, 

I’ll have a horrible accident!” squeaked Neville as he 
clambered back down the ladder toward Harry and 
Ron, who had now reached the landing. 

“That’s convenient,” snorted Ron. “You know, I’m 
starting to think Hermione was right about her” — he 
jabbed his thumb toward the trapdoor overhead — 
“she’s a right old fraud.” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, looking at his own watch. It was 
now two o’clock. “Wish she’d hurry up ...” 

Parvati came back down the ladder glowing with 
pride. 

“She says I’ve got all the makings of a true Seer,” she 
informed Harry and Ron. “I saw loads of stuff. ... Well, 
good luck!” 

She hurried off down the spiral staircase toward 
Lavender. 

“Ronald Weasley,” said the familiar, misty voice from 
over their heads. Ron grimaced at Harry and climbed 
the silver ladder out of sight. Harry was now the only 
person left to be tested. He settled himself on the floor 
with his back against the wall, listening to a fly 
buzzing in the sunny window, his mind across the 
grounds with Hagrid. 



Page | 358 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Finally, after about twenty minutes, Ron’s large feet 
reappeared on the ladder. 

“How’d it go?” Harry asked him, standing up. 

“Rubbish,” said Ron. “Couldn’t see a thing, so I made 
some stuff up. Don’t think she was convinced, 
though. ...” 

“Meet you in the common room,” Harry muttered as 
Professor Trelawney’s voice called, “Harry Potter!” 

The tower room was hotter than ever before; the 
curtains were closed, the fire was alight, and the 
usual sickly scent made Harry cough as he stumbled 
through the clutter of chairs and tables to where 
Professor Trelawney sat waiting for him before a large 
crystal ball. 

“Good day, my dear,” she said softly. “If you would 
kindly gaze into the Orb. ... Take your time, now ... 
then tell me what you see within it. ...” 

Harry bent over the crystal ball and stared, stared as 
hard as he could, willing it to show him something 
other than swirling white fog, but nothing happened. 

“Well?” Professor Trelawney prompted delicately. 
“What do you see?” 

The heat was overpowering and his nostrils were 
stinging with the perfumed smoke wafting from the 
fire beside them. He thought of what Ron had just 
said, and decided to pretend. 

“Er — ” said Harry, “a dark shape ... um ...” 

“What does it resemble?” whispered Professor 
Trelawney. “Think, now ...” 

Page | 359 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry cast his mind around and it landed on 
Buckbeak. 

“A hippogriff,” he said firmly. 

“Indeed!” whispered Professor Trelawney, scribbling 
keenly on the parchment perched upon her knees. 
“My boy, you may well be seeing the outcome of poor 
Hagrid’s trouble with the Ministry of Magic! Look 
closer. . . . Does the hippogriff appear to . . . have its 
head?” 

“Yes,” said Harry firmly. 

“Are you sure?” Professor Trelawney urged him. “Are 
you quite sure, dear? You don’t see it writhing on the 
ground, perhaps, and a shadowy figure raising an axe 
behind it?” 

“No!” said Harry, starting to feel slightly sick. 

“No blood? No weeping Hagrid?” 

“No!” said Harry again, wanting more than ever to 
leave the room and the heat. “It looks fine, it’s — 
flying away. ...” 

Professor Trelawney sighed. 

“Well, dear, I think we’ll leave it there. ... A little 
disappointing ... but I’m sure you did your best.” 

Relieved, Harry got up, picked up his bag and turned 
to go, but then a loud, harsh voice spoke behind him. 

“It will happen tonight.” 



Page | 360 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry wheeled around. Professor Trelawney had gone 
rigid in her armchair; her eyes were unfocused and 
her mouth sagging. 

“S — sorry?” said Harry. 

But Professor Trelawney didn’t seem to hear him. Her 
eyes started to roll. Harry sat there in a panic. She 
looked as though she was about to have some sort of 
seizure. He hesitated, thinking of running to the 
hospital wing — and then Professor Trelawney spoke 
again, in the same harsh voice, quite unlike her own: 

“The Dark Lord lies alone and friendless, abandoned 
by his followers. His servant has been chained these 
twelve years. Tonight, before midnight ... the servant 
will break free and set out to rejoin his master. The 
Dark Lord will rise again with his servant’s aid, 
greater and more terrible than ever he was. Tonight ... 
before midnight . . . the servant . . . will set out ... to 
rejoin ... his master. ...” 

Professor Trelawney’s head fell forward onto her 
chest. She made a grunting sort of noise. Harry sat 
there, staring at her. Then, quite suddenly, Professor 
Trelawney’s head snapped up again. 

“I’m so sorry, dear boy,” she said dreamily, “the heat 
of the day, you know ... I drifted off for a moment. ...” 

Harry sat there, staring at her. 

“Is there anything wrong, my dear?” 

“You — you just told me that the — the Dark Lord’s 
going to rise again ... that his servant’s going to go 
back to him. ...” 

Professor Trelawney looked thoroughly startled. 

Page | 361 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“The Dark Lord? He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named? My 
dear boy, that’s hardly something to joke about. ... 
Rise again, indeed — ” 

“But you just said it! You said the Dark Lord — ” 

“I think you must have dozed off too, dear!” said 
Professor Trelawney. “I would certainly not presume 
to predict anything quite as far-fetched as that\” 

Harry climbed back down the ladder and the spiral 
staircase, wondering ... had he just heard Professor 
Trelawney make a real prediction? Or had that been 
her idea of an impressive end to the test? 

Five minutes later he was dashing past the security 
trolls outside the entrance to Gryffindor Tower, 
Professor Trelawney’s words still resounding in his 
head. People were striding past him in the opposite 
direction, laughing and joking, heading for the 
grounds and a bit of long-awaited freedom; by the 
time he had reached the portrait hole and entered the 
common room, it was almost deserted. Over in the 
corner, however, sat Ron and Hermione. 

“Professor Trelawney,” Harry panted, “just told me — ” 

But he stopped abruptly at the sight of their faces. 

“Buckbeak lost,” said Ron weakly. “Hagrid’s just sent 
this.” 

Hagrid’s note was dry this time, no tears had 
splattered it, yet his hand seemed to have shaken so 
much as he wrote that it was hardly legible. 

Lost appeal. They’re going to execute at sunset 



Nothing you can do. Don’t come down. 

Page | 362 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




I don’t want you to see it 
Hagrid 

“We’ve got to go,” said Harry at once. “He can’t just sit 
there on his own, waiting for the executioner!” 

“Sunset, though,” said Ron, who was staring out the 
window in a glazed sort of way. “We’d never be 
allowed ... ’specially you, Harry. ...” 

Harry sank his head into his hands, thinking. 

“If we only had the Invisibility Cloak. ...” 

“Where is it?” said Hermione. 

Harry told her about leaving it in the passageway 
under the one-eyed witch. 

"... if Snape sees me anywhere near there again, I’m 
in serious trouble,” he finished. 

“That’s true,” said Hermione, getting to her feet. “If he 
sees you. ... How do you open the witch’s hump 
again?” 

“You — you tap it and say, ‘Dissendium,’ ” said Harry. 
“But — ” 

Hermione didn’t wait for the rest of his sentence; she 
strode across the room, pushed open the Fat Lady’s 
portrait and vanished from sight. 

“She hasn’t gone to get it?” Ron said, staring after 
her. 



Page | 363 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




She had. Hermione returned a quarter of an hour 
later with the silvery cloak folded carefully under her 
robes. 

“Hermione, I don’t know what’s gotten into you 
lately!” said Ron, astounded. “First you hit Malfoy, 
then you walk out on Professor Trelawney — ” 

Hermione looked rather flattered. 

They went down to dinner with everybody else, but 
did not return to Gryffindor Tower afterward. Harry 
had the cloak hidden down the front of his robes; he 
had to keep his arms folded to hide the lump. They 
skulked in an empty chamber off the entrance hall, 
listening, until they were sure it was deserted. They 
heard a last pair of people hurrying across the hall 
and a door slamming. Hermione poked her head 
around the door. 

“Okay,” she whispered, “no one there — cloak on — ” 

Walking very close together so that nobody would see 
them, they crossed the hall on tiptoe beneath the 
cloak, then walked down the stone front steps into 
the grounds. The sun was already sinking behind the 
Forbidden Forest, gilding the top branches of the 
trees. 

They reached Hagrid’s cabin and knocked. He was a 
minute in answering, and when he did, he looked all 
around for his visitor, pale-faced and trembling. 

“It’s us,” Harry hissed. “We’re wearing the Invisibility 
Cloak. Let us in and we can take it off.” 

“Yeh shouldn’ve come!” Hagrid whispered, but he 
stood back, and they stepped inside. Hagrid shut the 
door quickly and Harry pulled off the cloak. 

Page | 364 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid was not crying, nor did he throw himself upon 
their necks. He looked like a man who did not know 
where he was or what to do. This helplessness was 
worse to watch than tears. 

“Wan’ some tea?” he said. His great hands were 
shaking as he reached for the kettle. 

“Where’s Buckbeak, Hagrid?” said Hermione 
hesitantly. 

“I — I took him outside,” said Hagrid, spilling milk all 
over the table as he filled up the jug. “He’s tethered in 
me pumpkin patch. Thought he oughta see the trees 
an’ — an’ smell fresh air — before — ” 

Hagrid ’s hand trembled so violently that the milk jug 
slipped from his grasp and shattered all over the 
floor. 

“I’ll do it, Hagrid,” said Hermione quickly, hurrying 
over and starting to clean up the mess. 

“There’s another one in the cupboard,” Hagrid said, 
sitting down and wiping his forehead on his sleeve. 
Harry glanced at Ron, who looked back hopelessly. 

“Isn’t there anything anyone can do, Hagrid?” Harry 
asked fiercely, sitting down next to him. “Dumbledore 



“He’s tried,” said Hagrid. “He’s got no power ter 
overrule the Committee. He told ’em Buckbeak’s all 
right, but they’re scared. ... Yeh know what Lucius 
Malfoy’s like ... threatened ’em, I expect ... an’ the 
executioner, Macnair, he’s an old pal o’ Malfoy’s ... 
but it’ll be quick an’ clean ... an’ I’ll be beside him. ...” 



Page | 365 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hagrid swallowed. His eyes were darting all over the 
cabin as though looking for some shred of hope or 
comfort. 

“Dumbledore ’s gonna come down while it — while it 
happens. Wrote me this mornin’. Said he wants ter — 
ter be with me. Great man, Dumbledore. ...” 

Hermione, who had been rummaging in Hagrid ’s 
cupboard for another milk jug, let out a small, quickly 
stifled sob. She straightened up with the new jug in 
her hands, fighting back tears. 

“Well stay with you too, Hagrid,” she began, but 
Hagrid shook his shaggy head. 

“Yeh’re ter go back up ter the castle. I told yeh, I don’ 
wan’ yeh watchin’. An’ yeh shouldn’ be down here 
anyway. ... If Fudge an’ Dumbledore catch yeh out 
without permission, Harry, yehll be in big trouble.” 

Silent tears were now streaming down Hermione ’s 
face, but she hid them from Hagrid, bustling around 
making tea. Then, as she picked up the milk bottle to 
pour some into the jug, she let out a shriek. 

“Ron! I — I don’t believe it — it’s Scabbersl” 

Ron gaped at her. 

“What are you talking about?” 

Hermione carried the milk jug over to the table and 
turned it upside down. With a frantic squeak, and 
much scrambling to get back inside, Scabbers the rat 
came sliding out onto the table. 

“Scabbers!” said Ron blankly. “Scabbers, what are 
you doing here?” 

Page | 366 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




He grabbed the struggling rat and held him up to the 
light. Scabbers looked dreadful. He was thinner than 
ever, large tufts of hair had fallen out leaving wide 
bald patches, and he writhed in Ron’s hands as 
though desperate to free himself. 

“It’s okay, Scabbers!” said Ron. “No cats! There’s 
nothing here to hurt you!” 

Hagrid suddenly stood up, his eyes fixed on the 
window. His normally ruddy face had gone the color 
of parchment. 

“They’re cornin’. ...” 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione whipped around. A group 
of men was walking down the distant castle steps. In 
front was Albus Dumbledore, his silver beard 
gleaming in the dying sun. Next to him trotted 
Cornelius Fudge. Behind them came the feeble old 
Committee member and the executioner, Macnair. 

“Yeh gotta go,” said Hagrid. Every inch of him was 
trembling. “They mustn’ find yeh here. ... Go now. ...” 

Ron stuffed Scabbers into his pocket and Hermione 
picked up the cloak. 

“I’ll let yeh out the back way,” said Hagrid. 

They followed him to the door into his back garden. 
Harry felt strangely unreal, and even more so when 
he saw Buckbeak a few yards away, tethered to a tree 
behind Hagrid’s pumpkin patch. Buckbeak seemed to 
know something was happening. He turned his sharp 
head from side to side and pawed the ground 
nervously. 



Page | 367 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“It’s okay, Beaky,” said Hagrid softly. “It’s okay ...” He 
turned to Harry, Ron, and Hermione. “Go on,” he 
said. “Get goin’.” 

But they didn’t move. 

“Hagrid, we can’t — ” 

“Well tell them what really happened — ” 

“They can’t kill him — ” 

“Go!” said Hagrid fiercely. “It’s bad enough without 
you lot in trouble an’ all!” 

They had no choice. As Hermione threw the cloak 
over Harry and Ron, they heard voices at the front of 
the cabin. Hagrid looked at the place where they had 
just vanished from sight. 

“Go quick,” he said hoarsely. “Don’ listen. ...” 

And he strode back into his cabin as someone 
knocked at the front door. 

Slowly, in a kind of horrified trance, Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione set off silently around Hagrid’s house. As 
they reached the other side, the front door closed with 
a sharp snap. 

“Please, let’s hurry,” Hermione whispered. “I can’t 
stand it, I can’t bear it. ...” 

They started up the sloping lawn toward the castle. 
The sun was sinking fast now; the sky had turned to 
a clear, purple-tinged grey, but to the west there was 
a ruby-red glow. 

Ron stopped dead. 

Page | 368 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh, please, Ron,” Hermione began. 

“It’s Scabbers — he won’t — stay put — ” 

Ron was bent over, trying to keep Scabbers in his 
pocket, but the rat was going berserk; squeaking 
madly, twisting and flailing, trying to sink his teeth 
into Ron’s hand. 

“Scabbers, it’s me, you idiot, it’s Ron,” Ron hissed. 

They heard a door open behind them and men’s 
voices. 

“Oh, Ron, please let’s move, they’re going to do it!” 
Hermione breathed. 

“Okay — Scabbers, stay put — ” 

They walked forward; Harry, like Hermione, was 
trying not to listen to the rumble of voices behind 
them. Ron stopped again. 

“I can’t hold him — Scabbers, shut up, everyone’ll 
hear us — ” 

The rat was squealing wildly, but not loudly enough 
to cover up the sounds drifting from Hagrid’s garden. 
There was a jumble of indistinct male voices, a 
silence, and then, without warning, the unmistakable 
swish and thud of an axe. 

Hermione swayed on the spot. 

“They did it!” she whispered to Harry. “I d — don’t 
believe it — they did it!” 



Page | 369 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 






CAT, RAT, AND DOG 



Harry’s mind had gone blank with shock. The three of 
them stood transfixed with horror under the 
Invisibility Cloak. The very last rays of the setting sun 
were casting a bloody light over the long-shadowed 
grounds. Then, behind them, they heard a wild 
howling. 

“Hagrid,” Harry muttered. Without thinking about 
what he was doing, he made to turn back, but both 
Ron and Hermione seized his arms. 

“We can’t,” said Ron, who was paper-white. “He’ll be 
in worse trouble if they know we’ve been to see him. 



Hermione ’s breathing was shallow and uneven. 

“How — could — they?” she choked. “How could 
they?” 

“Come on,” said Ron, whose teeth seemed to be 
chattering. 

Page | 370 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



They set off back toward the castle, walking slowly to 
keep themselves hidden under the cloak. The light 
was fading fast now. By the time they reached open 
ground, darkness was settling like a spell around 
them. 

“Scabbers, keep still,” Ron hissed, clamping his hand 
over his chest. The rat was wriggling madly. Ron 
came to a sudden halt, trying to force Scabbers 
deeper into his pocket. “What’s the matter with you, 
you stupid rat? Stay still — OUCH! He bit me!” 

“Ron, be quiet!” Hermione whispered urgently. 
“Fudge’ll be out here in a minute — ” 

“He won’t — stay — put — ” 

Scabbers was plainly terrified. He was writhing with 
all his might, trying to break free of Ron’s grip. 

“What’s the matter with him?” 

But Harry had just seen — slinking toward them, his 
body low to the ground, wide yellow eyes glinting 
eerily in the darkness — Crookshanks. Whether he 
could see them or was following the sound of 
Scabbers’s squeaks, Harry couldn’t tell. 

“Crookshanks!” Hermione moaned. “No, go away, 
Crookshanks! Go away!” 

But the cat was getting nearer — 

“Scabbers — NO!” 

Too late — the rat had slipped between Ron’s 
clutching fingers, hit the ground, and scampered 
away. In one bound, Crookshanks sprang after him, 
and before Harry or Hermione could stop him, Ron 

Page | 371 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




had thrown the Invisibility Cloak off himself and 
pelted away into the darkness. 



“Ron\” Hermione moaned. 

She and Harry looked at each other, then followed at 
a sprint; it was impossible to run full out under the 
cloak; they pulled it off and it streamed behind them 
like a banner as they hurtled after Ron; they could 
hear his feet thundering along ahead and his shouts 
at Crookshanks. 

“Get away from him — get away — Scabbers, come 
here — ” 

There was a loud thud. 

“Gotchal Get off, you stinking cat — ” 

Harry and Hermione almost fell over Ron; they 
skidded to a stop right in front of him. He was 
sprawled on the ground, but Scabbers was back in 
his pocket; he had both hands held tight over the 
quivering lump. 

“Ron — come on — back under the cloak — ” 

Hermione panted. “Dumbledore — the Minister — 
they’ll be coming back out in a minute — ” 

But before they could cover themselves again, before 
they could even catch their breath, they heard the 
soft pounding of gigantic paws. ... Something was 
bounding toward them, quiet as a shadow — an 
enormous, pale-eyed, jet-black dog. 

Harry reached for his wand, but too late — the dog 
had made an enormous leap and the front paws hit 
him on the chest; he keeled over backward in a whirl 
of hair; he felt its hot breath, saw inch-long teeth — 

Page | 372 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




But the force of its leap had carried it too far; it rolled 
off him. Dazed, feeling as though his ribs were 
broken, Harry tried to stand up; he could hear it 
growling as it skidded around for a new attack. 

Ron was on his feet. As the dog sprang back toward 
them he pushed Harry aside; the dog’s jaws fastened 
instead around Ron’s outstretched arm. Harry lunged 
forward, he seized a handful of the brute’s hair, but it 
was dragging Ron away as easily as though he were a 
rag doll — 

Then, out of nowhere, something hit Harry so hard 
across the face he was knocked off his feet again. He 
heard Hermione shriek with pain and fall too. 

Harry groped for his wand, blinking blood out of his 
eyes — 

“Lumos\” he whispered. 

The wandlight showed him the trunk of a thick tree; 
they had chased Scabbers into the shadow of the 
Whomping Willow and its branches were creaking as 
though in a high wind, whipping backward and 
forward to stop them going nearer. 

And there, at the base of the trunk, was the dog, 
dragging Ron backward into a large gap in the roots 
— Ron was fighting furiously, but his head and torso 
were slipping out of sight — 

“Ron!” Harry shouted, trying to follow, but a heavy 
branch whipped lethally through the air and he was 
forced backward again. 

All they could see now was one of Ron’s legs, which 
he had hooked around a root in an effort to stop the 
dog from pulling him farther underground — but a 

Page | 373 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




horrible crack cut the air like a gunshot; Ron’s leg 
had broken, and a moment later, his foot vanished 
from sight. 

“Harry — we’ve got to go for help — ” Hermione 
gasped; she was bleeding too; the Willow had cut her 
across the shoulder. 

“No! That thing’s big enough to eat him; we haven’t 
got time — ” 

“Harry — we’re never going to get through without 
help — ” 

Another branch whipped down at them, twigs 
clenched like knuckles. 

“If that dog can get in, we can,” Harry panted, darting 
here and there, trying to find a way through the 
vicious, swishing branches, but he couldn’t get an 
inch nearer to the tree roots without being in range of 
the tree’s blows. 

“Oh, help, help,” Hermione whispered frantically, 
dancing uncertainly on the spot, “please ...” 

Crookshanks darted forward. He slithered between 
the battering branches like a snake and placed his 
front paws upon a knot on the trunk. 

Abruptly, as though the tree had been turned to 
marble, it stopped moving. Not a leaf twitched or 
shook. 

“Crookshanks!” Hermione whispered uncertainly. She 
now grasped Harry’s arm painfully hard. “How did he 
know — ?” 



Page | 374 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“He’s friends with that dog,” said Harry grimly. “I’ve 
seen them together. Come on — and keep your wand 
out — ” 

They covered the distance to the trunk in seconds, 
but before they had reached the gap in the roots, 
Crookshanks had slid into it with a flick of his 
bottlebrush tail. Harry went next; he crawled forward, 
headfirst, and slid down an earthy slope to the 
bottom of a very low tunnel. Crookshanks was a little 
way along, his eyes flashing in the light from Harry’s 
wand. Seconds later, Hermione slithered down beside 
him. 

“Where’s Ron?” she whispered in a terrified voice. 

“This way,” said Harry, setting off, bent-backed, after 
Crookshanks. 

“Where does this tunnel come out?” Hermione asked 
breathlessly from behind him. 

“I don’t know. ... It’s marked on the Marauder’s Map 
but Fred and George said no one’s ever gotten into it. 
...It goes off the edge of the map, but it looked like it 
was heading for Hogsmeade. ...” 

They moved as fast as they could, bent almost double; 
ahead of them, Crookshanks ’s tail bobbed in and out 
of view. On and on went the passage; it felt at least as 
long as the one to Honeydukes. ... All Harry could 
think of was Ron and what the enormous dog might 
be doing to him. ... He was drawing breath in sharp, 
painful gasps, running at a crouch. ... 

And then the tunnel began to rise; moments later it 
twisted, and Crookshanks had gone. Instead, Harry 
could see a patch of dim light through a small 
opening. 

Page | 375 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




He and Hermione paused, gasping for breath, edging 
forward. Both raised their wands to see what lay 
beyond. 

It was a room, a very disordered, dusty room. Paper 
was peeling from the walls; there were stains all over 
the floor; every piece of furniture was broken as 
though somebody had smashed it. The windows were 
all boarded up. 

Harry glanced at Hermione, who looked very 
frightened but nodded. 

Harry pulled himself out of the hole, staring around. 
The room was deserted, but a door to their right stood 
open, leading to a shadowy hallway. Hermione 
suddenly grabbed Harry’s arm again. Her wide eyes 
were traveling around the boarded windows. 

“Harry,” she whispered, “I think we’re in the Shrieking 
Shack.” 

Harry looked around. His eyes fell on a wooden chair 
near them. Large chunks had been torn out of it; one 
of the legs had been ripped off entirely. 

“Ghosts didn’t do that,” he said slowly. 

At that moment, there was a creak overhead. 
Something had moved upstairs. Both of them looked 
up at the ceiling. Hermione ’s grip on Harry’s arm was 
so tight he was losing feeling in his fingers. He raised 
his eyebrows at her; she nodded again and let go. 

Quietly as they could, they crept out into the hall and 
up the crumbling staircase. Everything was covered 
in a thick layer of dust except the floor, where a wide 
shiny stripe had been made by something being 
dragged upstairs. 

Page | 376 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




They reached the dark landing. 



“Nox,” they whispered together, and the lights at the 
end of their wands went out. Only one door was open. 
As they crept toward it, they heard movement from 
behind it; a low moan, and then a deep, loud purring. 
They exchanged a last look, a last nod. 

Wand held tightly before him, Harry kicked the door 
wide open. 

On a magnificent four-poster bed with dusty hangings 
lay Crookshanks, purring loudly at the sight of them. 
On the floor beside him, clutching his leg, which 
stuck out at a strange angle, was Ron. 

Harry and Hermione dashed across to him. 

“Ron — are you okay?” 

“Where’s the dog?” 

“Not a dog,” Ron moaned. His teeth were gritted with 
pain. “Harry, it’s a trap — ” 

“What — ” 

“He’s the dog ... he’s an Animagus. ...” 

Ron was staring over Harry’s shoulder. Harry wheeled 
around. With a snap, the man in the shadows closed 
the door behind them. 

A mass of filthy, matted hair hung to his elbows. If 
eyes hadn’t been shining out of the deep, dark 
sockets, he might have been a corpse. The waxy skin 
was stretched so tightly over the bones of his face, it 
looked like a skull. His yellow teeth were bared in a 
grin. It was Sirius Black. 

Page | 377 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“ ExpelliarmusV’ he croaked, pointing Ron’s wand at 
them. 

Harry’s and Hermione’s wands shot out of their 
hands, high in the air, and Black caught them. Then 
he took a step closer. His eyes were fixed on Harry. 

“I thought you’d come and help your friend,” he said 
hoarsely. His voice sounded as though he had long 
since lost the habit of using it. “Your father would 
have done the same for me. Brave of you, not to run 
for a teacher. I’m grateful ... it will make everything 
much easier. ...” 

The taunt about his father rang in Harry’s ears as 
though Black had bellowed it. A boiling hate erupted 
in Harry’s chest, leaving no place for fear. For the first 
time in his life, he wanted his wand back in his hand, 
not to defend himself, but to attack ... to kill. Without 
knowing what he was doing, he started forward, but 
there was a sudden movement on either side of him 
and two pairs of hands grabbed him and held him 
back. ... “No, Harry!” Hermione gasped in a petrified 
whisper; Ron, however, spoke to Black. 

“If you want to kill Harry, you’ll have to kill us too!” 
he said fiercely, though the effort of standing upright 
was draining him of still more color, and he swayed 
slightly as he spoke. 

Something flickered in Black’s shadowed eyes. 

“Lie down,” he said quietly to Ron. “You will damage 
that leg even more.” 

“Did you hear me?” Ron said weakly, though he was 
clinging painfully to Harry to stay upright. “You’ll 
have to kill all three of us!” 



Page | 378 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“There’ll be only one murder here tonight,” said Black, 
and his grin widened. 



“Why’s that?” Harry spat, trying to wrench himself 
free of Ron and Hermione. “Didn’t care last time, did 
you? Didn’t mind slaughtering all those Muggles to 
get at Pettigrew. ... What’s the matter, gone soft in 
Azkaban?” 

“Harry!” Hermione whimpered. “Be quiet!” 

“HE KILLED MY MUM AND DAD!” Harry roared, and 
with a huge effort he broke free of Hermione ’s and 
Ron’s restraint and lunged forward — 

He had forgotten about magic — he had forgotten that 
he was short and skinny and thirteen, whereas Black 
was a tall, full-grown man — all Harry knew was that 
he wanted to hurt Black as badly as he could and 
that he didn’t care how much he got hurt in return — 

Perhaps it was the shock of Harry doing something so 
stupid, but Black didn’t raise the wands in time — 
one of Harry’s hands fastened over his wasted wrist, 
forcing the wand tips away; the knuckles of Harry’s 
other hand collided with the side of Black’s head and 
they fell, backward, into the wall — 

Hermione was screaming; Ron was yelling; there was 
a blinding flash as the wands in Black’s hand sent a 
jet of sparks into the air that missed Harry’s face by 
inches; Harry felt the shrunken arm under his fingers 
twisting madly, but he clung on, his other hand 
punching every part of Black it could find. 

But Black’s free hand had found Harry’s throat — 

“No,” he hissed, “I’ve waited too long — ” 

Page | 379 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




The fingers tightened, Harry choked, his glasses 
askew. 

Then he saw Hermione ’s foot swing out of nowhere. 
Black let go of Harry with a grunt of pain; Ron had 
thrown himself on Black’s wand hand and Harry 
heard a faint clatter — 

He fought free of the tangle of bodies and saw his own 
wand rolling across the floor; he threw himself toward 
it but — 

“Argh!” 

Crookshanks had joined the fray; both sets of front 
claws had sunk themselves deep into Harry’s arm; 
Harry threw him off, but Crookshanks now darted 
toward Harry’s wand — 

“NO YOU DONT!” roared Harry, and he aimed a kick 
at Crookshanks that made the cat leap aside, 
spitting; Harry snatched up his wand and turned — 

“Get out of the way!” he shouted at Ron and 
Hermione. 

They didn’t need telling twice. Hermione, gasping for 
breath, her lip bleeding, scrambled aside, snatching 
up her and Ron’s wands. Ron crawled to the four- 
poster and collapsed onto it, panting, his white face 
now tinged with green, both hands clutching his 
broken leg. 

Black was sprawled at the bottom of the wall. His thin 
chest rose and fell rapidly as he watched Harry 
walking slowly nearer, his wand pointing straight at 
Black’s heart. 

“Going to kill me, Harry?” he whispered. 

Page | 380 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry stopped right above him, his wand still pointing 
at Black’s chest, looking down at him. A livid bruise 
was rising around Black’s left eye and his nose was 
bleeding. 

“You killed my parents,” said Harry, his voice shaking 
slightly, but his wand hand quite steady. 

Black stared up at him out of those sunken eyes. 

“I don’t deny it,” he said very quietly. “But if you knew 
the whole story.” 

“The whole story?” Harry repeated, a furious 
pounding in his ears. “You sold them to Voldemort. 
That’s all I need to know.” 

“You’ve got to listen to me,” Black said, and there was 
a note of urgency in his voice now. “You’ll regret it if 
you don’t. ... You don’t understand. ...” 

“I understand a lot better than you think,” said Harry, 
and his voice shook more than ever. “You never heard 
her, did you? My mum ... trying to stop Voldemort 
killing me ... and you did that ... you did it. ...” 

Before either of them could say another word, 
something ginger streaked past Harry; Crookshanks 
leapt onto Black’s chest and settled himself there, 
right over Black’s heart. Black blinked and looked 
down at the cat. 

“Get off,” he murmured, trying to push Crookshanks 
off him. 

But Crookshanks sank his claws into Black’s robes 
and wouldn’t shift. He turned his ugly, squashed face 
to Harry and looked up at him with those great yellow 
eyes. To his right, Hermione gave a dry sob. 

Page | 381 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry stared down at Black and Crookshanks, his 
grip tightening on the wand. So what if he had to kill 
the cat too? It was in league with Black. ... If it was 
prepared to die, trying to protect Black, that wasn’t 
Harry’s business. ... If Black wanted to save it, that 
only proved he cared more for Crookshanks than for 
Harry’s parents. ... 

Harry raised the wand. Now was the moment to do it. 
Now was the moment to avenge his mother and 
father. He was going to kill Black. He had to kill 
Black. This was his chance. ... 

The seconds lengthened. And still Harry stood frozen 
there, wand poised, Black staring up at him, 
Crookshanks on his chest. Ron’s ragged breathing 
came from near the bed; Hermione was quite silent. 

And then came a new sound — 

Muffled footsteps were echoing up through the floor 
— someone was moving downstairs. 

“WE’RE UP HERE!” Hermione screamed suddenly. 
“WE’RE UP HERE — SIRIUS BLACK — QUICK!” 

Black made a startled movement that almost 
dislodged Crookshanks; Harry gripped his wand 
convulsively — Do it nouA said a voice in his head — 
but the footsteps were thundering up the stairs and 
Harry still hadn’t done it. 

The door of the room burst open in a shower of red 
sparks and Harry wheeled around as Professor Lupin 
came hurtling into the room, his face bloodless, his 
wand raised and ready. His eyes flickered over Ron, 
lying on the floor, over Hermione, cowering next to the 
door, to Harry, standing there with his wand covering 



Page | 382 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Black, and then to Black himself, crumpled and 
bleeding at Harry’s feet. 

“ ExpelliarmusV’ Lupin shouted. 

Harry’s wand flew once more out of his hand; so did 
the two Hermione was holding. Lupin caught them all 
deftly, then moved into the room, staring at Black, 
who still had Crookshanks lying protectively across 
his chest. 

Harry stood there, feeling suddenly empty. He hadn’t 
done it. His nerve had failed him. Black was going to 
be handed back to the dementors. 

Then Lupin spoke, in a very tense voice. 

“Where is he, Sirius?” 

Harry looked quickly at Lupin. He didn’t understand 
what Lupin meant. Who was Lupin talking about? He 
turned to look at Black again. 

Black’s face was quite expressionless. For a few 
seconds, he didn’t move at all. Then, very slowly, he 
raised his empty hand and pointed straight at Ron. 
Mystified, Harry glanced around at Ron, who looked 
bewildered. 

“But then ... ,” Lupin muttered, staring at Black so 
intently it seemed he was trying to read his mind, "... 
why hasn’t he shown himself before now? Unless” — 
Lupin’s eyes suddenly widened, as though he was 
seeing something beyond Black, something none of 
the rest could see, “ — unless he was the one ... 
unless you switched . . . without telling me?” 

Very slowly, his sunken gaze never leaving Lupin’s 
face, Black nodded. 

Page | 383 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Professor,” Harry interrupted loudly, “what’s going 
on — ?” 

But he never finished the question, because what he 
saw made his voice die in his throat. Lupin was 
lowering his wand, gazing fixedly at Black. The 
Professor walked to Black’s side, seized his hand, 
pulled him to his feet so that Crookshanks fell to the 
floor, and embraced Black like a brother. 

Harry felt as though the bottom had dropped out of 
his stomach. 

“I DONT BELIEVE IT!” Hermione screamed. 

Lupin let go of Black and turned to her. She had 
raised herself off the floor and was pointing at Lupin, 
wild-eyed. “You — you — ” 

“Hermione — ” 

“ — you and him!” 

“Hermione, calm down — ” 

“I didn’t tell anyone!” Hermione shrieked. “I’ve been 
covering up for you — ” 

“Hermione, listen to me, please!” Lupin shouted. “I 
can explain — ” 

Harry could feel himself shaking, not with fear, but 
with a fresh wave of fury. 

“I trusted you,” he shouted at Lupin, his voice 
wavering out of control, “and all the time you’ve been 
his friend!” 



Page | 384 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“You’re wrong,” said Lupin. “I haven’t been Sirius’s 
friend, but I am now — Let me explain. ...” 

“NO!” Hermione screamed. “Harry, don’t trust him, 
he’s been helping Black get into the castle, he wants 
you dead too — he’s a werewolf.” 

There was a ringing silence. Everyone’s eyes were now 
on Lupin, who looked remarkably calm, though rather 
pale. 

“Not at all up to your usual standard, Hermione,” he 
said. “Only one out of three, I’m afraid. I have not 
been helping Sirius get into the castle and I certainly 
don’t want Harry dead. ...” An odd shiver passed over 
his face. “But I won’t deny that I am a werewolf.” 

Ron made a valiant effort to get up again but fell back 
with a whimper of pain. Lupin made toward him, 
looking concerned, but Ron gasped, 

“Get away from me, werewolf” 

Lupin stopped dead. Then, with an obvious effort, he 
turned to Hermione and said, “How long have you 
known?” 

“Ages,” Hermione whispered. “Since I did Professor 
Snape’s essay. ...” 

“He’ll be delighted,” said Lupin coolly. “He assigned 
that essay hoping someone would realize what my 
symptoms meant. ... Did you check the lunar chart 
and realize that I was always ill at the full moon? Or 
did you realize that the boggart changed into the 
moon when it saw me?” 

“Both,” Hermione said quietly. 



Page | 385 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Lupin forced a laugh. 

“You’re the cleverest witch of your age I’ve ever met, 
Hermione.” 

“I’m not,” Hermione whispered. “If I’d been a bit 
cleverer, I’d have told everyone what you are!” 

“But they already know,” said Lupin. “At least, the 
staff do.” 

“Dumbledore hired you when he knew you were a 
werewolf?” Ron gasped. “Is he mad?” 

“Some of the staff thought so,” said Lupin. “He had to 
work very hard to convince certain teachers that I’m 
trustworthy — ” 

“AND HE WAS WRONG!” Harry yelled. “YOU VE BEEN 
HELPING HIM ALL THE TIME!” He was pointing at 
Black, who suddenly crossed to the four-poster bed 
and sank onto it, his face hidden in one shaking 
hand. Crookshanks leapt up beside him and stepped 
onto his lap, purring. Ron edged away from both of 
them, dragging his leg. 

“I have not been helping Sirius,” said Lupin. “If you’ll 
give me a chance, I’ll explain. Look — ” 

He separated Harry’s, Ron’s and Hermione’s wands 
and threw each back to its owner; Harry caught his, 
stunned. 

“There,” said Lupin, sticking his own wand back into 
his belt. “You’re armed, we’re not. Now will you 
listen?” 

Harry didn’t know what to think. Was it a trick? 



Page | 386 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“If you haven’t been helping him,” he said, with a 
furious glance at Black, “how did you know he was 
here?” 



“The map,” said Lupin. “The Marauder’s Map. I was in 
my office examining it — ” 

“You know how to work it?” Harry said suspiciously. 

“Of course I know how to work it,” said Lupin, waving 
his hand impatiently. “I helped write it. I’m Moony — 
that was my friends’ nickname for me at school.” 

“You wrote — ?” 

“The important thing is, I was watching it carefully 
this evening, because I had an idea that you, Ron, 
and Hermione might try and sneak out of the castle to 
visit Hagrid before his hippogriff was executed. And I 
was right, wasn’t I?” 

He had started to pace up and down, looking at them. 
Little patches of dust rose at his feet. 

“You might have been wearing your father’s old cloak, 
Harry — ” 

“How d’you know about the cloak?” 

“The number of times I saw James disappearing 
under it... ,” said Lupin, waving an impatient hand 
again. “The point is, even if you’re wearing an 
Invisibility Cloak, you still show up on the Marauder’s 
Map. I watched you cross the grounds and enter 
Hagrid’s hut. Twenty minutes later, you left Hagrid, 
and set off back toward the castle. But you were now 
accompanied by somebody else.” 

“What?” said Harry. “No, we weren’t!” 

Page | 387 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“I couldn’t believe my eyes,” said Lupin, still pacing, 
and ignoring Harry’s interruption. “I thought the map 
must be malfunctioning. How could he be with you?” 

“No one was with us!” said Harry. 

“And then I saw another dot, moving fast toward you, 
labeled Sirius Black. ... I saw him collide with you; I 
watched as he pulled two of you into the Whomping 
Willow — ” 

“One of us!” Ron said angrily. 

“No, Ron,” said Lupin. “Two of you.” 

He had stopped his pacing, his eyes moving over Ron. 

“Do you think I could have a look at the rat?” he said 
evenly. 

“What?” said Ron. “What’s Scabbers got to do with 
it?” 



“Everything,” said Lupin. “Could I see him, please?” 

Ron hesitated, then put a hand inside his robes. 
Scabbers emerged, thrashing desperately; Ron had to 
seize his long bald tail to stop him escaping. 
Crookshanks stood up on Black’s leg and made a soft 
hissing noise. 

Lupin moved closer to Ron. He seemed to be holding 
his breath as he gazed intently at Scabbers. 

“What?” Ron said again, holding Scabbers close to 
him, looking scared. “What’s my rat got to do with 
anything?” 

“That’s not a rat,” croaked Sirius Black suddenly. 

Page | 388 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“What d’you mean — of course he’s a rat — ” 

“No, he’s not,” said Lupin quietly. “He’s a wizard.” 

“An Animagus,” said Black, “by the name of Peter 
Pettigrew.” 



Page | 389 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 






MOONY, WORMTAIL, PADFOOT, AND 

PRONGS 

It took a few seconds for the absurdity of this 
statement to sink in. Then Ron voiced what Harry 
was thinking. 

“You’re both mental.” 

“Ridiculous!” said Hermione faintly. 

“Peter Pettigrew’s dead!” said Harry. “He killed him 
twelve years ago!” He pointed at Black, whose face 
twitched convulsively. 

“I meant to,” he growled, his yellow teeth bared, “but 
little Peter got the better of me ... not this time, 
though!” 

And Crookshanks was thrown to the floor as Black 
lunged at Scabbers; Ron yelled with pain as Black’s 
weight fell on his broken leg. 



Page | 390 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Sirius, NO!” Lupin yelled, launching himself forwards 
and dragging Black away from Ron again, “WAIT! You 
can’t do it just like that — they need to understand — 
we’ve got to explain — ” 

“We can explain afterwards!” snarled Black, trying to 
throw Lupin off. One hand was still clawing the air as 
it tried to reach Scabbers, who was squealing like a 
piglet, scratching Ron’s face and neck as he tried to 
escape. 

“They’ve — got — a — right — to — know — 
everything!” Lupin panted, still trying to restrain 
Black. “Ron’s kept him as a pet! There are parts of it 
even I don’t understand! And Harry — you owe Harry 
the truth, Sirius!” 

Black stopped struggling, though his hollowed eyes 
were still fixed on Scabbers, who was clamped tightly 
under Ron’s bitten, scratched, and bleeding hands. 

“All right, then,” Black said, without taking his eyes 
off the rat. “Tell them whatever you like. But make it 
quick, Remus. I want to commit the murder I was 
imprisoned for. ...” 

“You’re nutters, both of you,” said Ron shakily, 
looking round at Harry and Hermione for support. 

“I’ve had enough of this. I’m off.” 

He tried to heave himself up on his good leg, but 
Lupin raised his wand again, pointing it at Scabbers. 

“You’re going to hear me out, Ron,” he said quietly. 
“Just keep a tight hold on Peter while you listen.” 

“HE’S NOT PETER, HE’S SCABBERS!” Ron yelled, 
trying to force the rat back into his front pocket, but 
Scabbers was fighting too hard; Ron swayed and 

Page | 391 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




overbalanced, and Harry caught him and pushed him 
back down to the bed. Then, ignoring Black, Harry 
turned to Lupin. 

“There were witnesses who saw Pettigrew die,” he 
said. “A whole street full of them ...” 

“They didn’t see what they thought they saw!” said 
Black savagely, still watching Scabbers struggling in 
Ron’s hands. 

“Everyone thought Sirius killed Peter,” said Lupin, 
nodding. “I believed it myself — until I saw the map 
tonight. Because the Marauder’s map never lies ... 
Peter’s alive. Ron’s holding him, Harry.” 

Harry looked down at Ron, and as their eyes met, 
they agreed, silently: Black and Lupin were both out 
of their minds. Their story made no sense whatsoever. 
How could Scabbers be Peter Pettigrew? Azkaban 
must have unhinged Black after all — but why was 
Lupin playing along with him? 

Then Hermione spoke, in a trembling, would-be calm 
sort of voice, as though trying to will Professor Lupin 
to talk sensibly. 

“But Professor Lupin ... Scabbers can’t be Pettigrew 
... it just can’t be true, you know it can’t ...” 

“Why can’t it be true?” Lupin said calmly, as though 
they were in class, and Hermione had simply spotted 
a problem in an experiment with grindylows. 

“Because . . . because people would know if Peter 
Pettigrew had been an Animagus. We did Animagi in 
class with Professor McGonagall. And I looked them 
up when I did my homework — the Ministry of Magic 
keeps tabs on witches and wizards who can become 
Page | 392 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




animals; there’s a register showing what animal they 
become, and their markings and things ... and I went 
and looked Professor McGonagall up on the register, 
and there have been only seven Animagi this century, 
and Pettigrew’s name wasn’t on the list — ” 

Harry had barely had time to marvel inwardly at the 
effort Hermione put into her homework, when Lupin 
started to laugh. “Right again, Hermione!” he said. 
“But the Ministry never knew that there used to be 
three unregistered Animagi running around 
Hogwarts.” 

“If you’re going to tell them the story, get a move on, 
Remus,” snarled Black, who was still watching 
Scabbers’s every desperate move. “I’ve waited twelve 
years, I’m not going to wait much longer.” 

“All right ... but you’ll need to help me, Sirius,” said 
Lupin, “I only know how it began ...” 

Lupin broke off. There had been a loud creak behind 
him. The bedroom door had opened of its own accord. 
All five of them stared at it. Then Lupin strode toward 
it and looked out into the landing. 

“No one there ...” 

“This place is haunted!” said Ron. 

“It’s not,” said Lupin, still looking at the door in a 
puzzled way. “The Shrieking Shack was never 
haunted. ... The screams and howls the villagers used 
to hear were made by me.” 

He pushed his graying hair out of his eyes, thought 
for a moment, then said, “That’s where all of this 
starts — with my becoming a werewolf. None of this 



Page | 393 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




could have happened if I hadn’t been bitten ... and if I 
hadn’t been so foolhardy. ...” 

He looked sober and tired. Ron started to interrupt, 
but Hermione said, “Shh!” She was watching Lupin 
very intently. 

“I was a very small boy when I received the bite. My 
parents tried everything, but in those days there was 
no cure. The potion that Professor Snape has been 
making for me is a very recent discovery. It makes me 
safe, you see. As long as I take it in the week 
preceding the full moon, I keep my mind when I 
transform. ... I am able to curl up in my office, a 
harmless wolf, and wait for the moon to wane again. 

“Before the Wolfsbane Potion was discovered, 
however, I became a fully fledged monster once a 
month. It seemed impossible that I would be able to 
come to Hogwarts. Other parents weren’t likely to 
want their children exposed to me. 

“But then Dumbledore became Headmaster, and he 
was sympathetic. He said that as long as we took 
certain precautions, there was no reason I shouldn’t 
come to school. ...” Lupin sighed, and looked directly 
at Harry. “I told you, months ago, that the Whomping 
Willow was planted the year I came to Hogwarts. The 
truth is that it was planted because I came to 
Hogwarts. This house” — Lupin looked miserably 
around the room, — “the tunnel that leads to it — 
they were built for my use. Once a month, I was 
smuggled out of the castle, into this place, to 
transform. The tree was placed at the tunnel mouth 
to stop anyone coming across me while I was 
dangerous.” 

Harry couldn’t see where this story was going, but he 
was listening raptly all the same. The only sound 

Page | 394 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




apart from Lupin’s voice was Scabbers’s frightened 
squeaking. 



“My transformations in those days were — were 
terrible. It is very painful to turn into a werewolf. I 
was separated from humans to bite, so I bit and 
scratched myself instead. The villagers heard the 
noise and the screaming and thought they were 
hearing particularly violent spirits. Dumbledore 
encouraged the rumor. . . . Even now, when the house 
has been silent for years, the villagers don’t dare 
approach it. ... 

“But apart from my transformations, I was happier 
than I had ever been in my life. For the first time ever, 
I had friends, three great friends. Sirius Black ... 

Peter Pettigrew ... and, of course, your father, Harry 
— James Potter. 

“Now, my three friends could hardly fail to notice that 
I disappeared once a month. I made up all sorts of 
stories. I told them my mother was ill, and that I had 
to go home to see her. ... I was terrified they would 
desert me the moment they found out what I was. But 
of course, they, like you, Hermione, worked out the 
truth. ... 

“And they didn’t desert me at all. Instead, they did 
something for me that would make my 
transformations not only bearable, but the best times 
of my life. They became Animagi.” 

“My dad too?” said Harry, astounded. 

“Yes, indeed,” said Lupin. “It took them the best part 
of three years to work out how to do it. Your father 
and Sirius here were the cleverest students in the 
school, and lucky they were, because the Animagus 
transformation can go horribly wrong — one reason 
Page | 395 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




the Ministry keeps a close watch on those attempting 
to do it. Peter needed all the help he could get from 
James and Sirius. Finally, in our fifth year, they 
managed it. They could each turn into a different 
animal at will.” 

“But how did that help you?” said Hermione, 
sounding puzzled. 

“They couldn’t keep me company as humans, so they 
kept me company as animals,” said Lupin. “A 
werewolf is only a danger to people. They sneaked out 
of the castle every month under James’s Invisibility 
Cloak. They transformed . . . Peter, as the smallest, 
could slip beneath the Willow’s attacking branches 
and touch the knot that freezes it. They would then 
slip down the tunnel and join me. Under their 
influence, I became less dangerous. My body was still 
wolfish, but my mind seemed to become less so while 
I was with them.” 

“Hurry up, Remus,” snarled Black, who was still 
watching Scabbers with a horrible sort of hunger on 
his face. 

“I’m getting there, Sirius, I’m getting there ... well, 
highly exciting possibilities were open to us now that 
we could all transform. Soon we were leaving the 
Shrieking Shack and roaming the school grounds and 
the village by night. Sirius and James transformed 
into such large animals, they were able to keep a 
werewolf in check. I doubt whether any Hogwarts 
students ever found out more about the Hogwarts 
grounds and Hogsmeade than we did. ... And that’s 
how we came to write the Marauder’s Map, and sign it 
with our nicknames. Sirius is Padfoot. Peter is 
Wormtail. James was Prongs.” 



Page | 396 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“What sort of animal — ?” Harry began, but Hermione 
cut him off. 

“That was still really dangerous! Running around in 
the dark with a werewolf! What if you’d given the 
others the slip, and bitten somebody?” 

“A thought that still haunts me,” said Lupin heavily. 
“And there were near misses, many of them. We 
laughed about them afterwards. We were young, 
thoughtless — carried away with our own cleverness.” 

“I sometimes felt guilty about betraying Dumbledore’s 
trust, of course ... he had admitted me to Hogwarts 
when no other headmaster would have done so, and 
he had no idea I was breaking the rules he had set 
down for my own and others’ safety. He never knew I 
had led three fellow students into becoming Animagi 
illegally. But I always managed to forget my guilty 
feelings every time we sat down to plan our next 
month’s adventure. And I haven’t changed ...” 

Lupin’s face had hardened, and there was self-disgust 
in his voice. “All this year, I have been battling with 
myself, wondering whether I should tell Dumbledore 
that Sirius was an Animagus. But I didn’t do it. Why? 
Because I was too cowardly. It would have meant 
admitting that I’d betrayed his trust while I was at 
school, admitting that I’d led others along with me ... 
and Dumbledore’s trust has meant everything to me. 
He let me into Hogwarts as a boy, and he gave me a 
job when I have been shunned all my adult life, 
unable to find paid work because of what I am. And 
so I convinced myself that Sirius was getting into the 
school using dark arts he learned from Voldemort, 
that being an Animagus had nothing to do with it . . . 
so, in a way, Snape’s been right about me all along.” 



Page | 397 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Snape?” said Black harshly, taking his eyes off 
Scabbers for the first time in minutes and looking up 
at Lupin. “What’s Snape got to do with it?” 

“He’s here, Sirius,” said Lupin heavily. “He’s teaching 
here as well.” He looked up at Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione. 

“Professor Snape was at school with us. He fought 
very hard against my appointment to the Defense 
Against the Dark Arts job. He has been telling 
Dumbledore all year that I am not to be trusted. He 
has his reasons ... you see, Sirius here played a trick 
on him which nearly killed him, a trick which 
involved me — ” 

Black made a derisive noise. 

“It served him right,” he sneered. “Sneaking around, 
trying to find out what we were up to . . . hoping he 
could get us expelled. ...” 

“Severus was very interested in where I went every 
month.” Lupin told Harry, Ron, and Hermione. “We 
were in the same year, you know, and we — er — 
didn’t like each other very much. He especially 
disliked James. Jealous, I think, of James’s talent on 
the Quidditch field . . . anyway Snape had seen me 
crossing the grounds with Madam Pomfrey one 
evening as she led me toward the Whomping Willow 
to transform. Sirius thought it would be — er — 
amusing, to tell Snape all he had to do was prod the 
knot on the tree trunk with a long stick, and he’d be 
able to get in after me. Well, of course, Snape tried it 
— if he’d got as far as this house, he’d have met a 
fully grown werewolf — but your father, who’d heard 
what Sirius had done, went after Snape and pulled 
him back, at great risk to his life . . . Snape glimpsed 
me, though, at the end of the tunnel. He was 
Page | 398 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




forbidden by Dumbledore to tell anybody, but from 
that time on he knew what I was. ...” 

“So that’s why Snape doesn’t like you,” said Harry 
slowly, “because he thought you were in on the joke?” 

“That’s right,” sneered a cold voice from the wall 
behind Lupin. 

Severus Snape was pulling off the Invisibility Cloak, 
his wand pointing directly at Lupin. 



Page | 399 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 








THE SERVANT OF LORD 
VOLDERMORT 

Hermione screamed. Black leapt to his feet. Harry felt 
as though he’d received a huge electric shock. 

“I found this at the base of the Whomping Willow,” 
said Snape, throwing the cloak aside, careful to keep 
this wand pointing directly at Lupin’s chest. “Very 
useful, Potter, I thank you. ...” 

Snape was slightly breathless, but his face was full of 
suppressed triumph. “You’re wondering, perhaps, 
how I knew you were here?” he said, his eyes 
glittering. “I’ve just been to your office, Lupin. You 
forgot to take your potion tonight, so I took a gobletful 
along. And very lucky I did ... lucky for me, I mean. 
Lying on your desk was a certain map. One glance at 
it told me all I needed to know. I saw you running 
along this passageway and out of sight.” 

“Severus — ” Lupin began, but Snape overrode him. 



Page | 400 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



“I’ve told the headmaster again and again that you’re 
helping your old friend Black into the castle, Lupin, 
and here’s the proof. Not even I dreamed you would 
have the nerve to use this old place as your hideout 



“Severus, you’re making a mistake,” said Lupin 
urgently. “You haven’t heard everything — I can 
explain — Sirius is not here to kill Harry — ” 

“Two more for Azkaban tonight,” said Snape, his eyes 
now gleaming fanatically. “I shall be interested to see 
how Dumbledore takes this. ... He was quite 
convinced you were harmless, you know, Lupin ... a 
tame werewolf — ” 

“You fool,” said Lupin softly. “Is a schoolboy grudge 
worth putting an innocent man back inside 
Azkaban?” 

BANG! Thin, snakelike cords burst from the end of 
Snape’s wand and twisted themselves around Lupin’s 
mouth, wrists, and ankles; he overbalanced and fell 
to the floor, unable to move. With a roar of rage, 

Black started toward Snape, but Snape pointed his 
wand straight between Black’s eyes. 

“Give me a reason,” he whispered. “Give me a reason 
to do it, and I swear I will.” 

Black stopped dead. It would have been impossible to 
say which face showed more hatred. 

Harry stood there, paralyzed, not knowing what to do 
or whom to believe. He glanced around at Ron and 
Hermione. Ron looked just as confused as he did, still 
fighting to keep hold on the struggling Scabbers. 
Hermione, however, took an uncertain step toward 
Snape and said, in a very breathless voice, “Professor 
Page | 401 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Snape — it — it wouldn’t hurt to hear what they’ve 
got to say, w — would it?” 

“Miss Granger, you are already facing suspension 
from this school,” Snape spat. “You, Potter, and 
Weasley are out-of-bounds, in the company of a 
convicted murderer and a werewolf. For once in your 
life, hold your tongue.” 

“But if — if there was a mistake — ” 

“KEEP QUIET, YOU STUPID GIRL!” Snape shouted, 
looking suddenly quite deranged. “DONT TALK 
ABOUT WHAT YOU DONT UNDERSTAND!” A few 
sparks shot out of the end of his wand, which was 
still pointed at Black’s face. Hermione fell silent. 

“Vengeance is very sweet,” Snape breathed at Black. 
“How I hoped I would be the one to catch you. ...” 

“The joke’s on you again, Severus,” Black snarled. “As 
long as this boy brings his rat up to the castle” — he 
jerked his head at Ron — “I’ll come quietly. ...” 

“Up to the castle?” said Snape silkily. “I don’t think 
we need to go that far. All I have to do is call the 
dementors once we get out of the Willow. They’ll be 
very pleased to see you, Black ... pleased enough to 
give you a little kiss, I daresay. ...” 

What little color there was in Black’s face left it. 

“You — you’ve got to hear me out,” he croaked. “The 
rat — look at the rat — ” 

But there was a mad glint in Snape ’s eyes that Harry 
had never seen before. He seemed beyond reason. 



Page | 402 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Come on, all of you,” he said. He clicked his fingers, 
and the ends of the cords that bound Lupin flew to 
his hands. “Ill drag the werewolf. Perhaps the 
dementors will have a kiss for him too — ” 

Before he knew what he was doing, Harry had crossed 
the room in three strides and blocked the door. 

“Get out of the way, Potter, you’re in enough trouble 
already,” snarled Snape. “If I hadn’t been here to save 
your skin — ” 

“Professor Lupin could have killed me about a 
hundred times this year,” Harry said. “I’ve been alone 
with him loads of times, having defense lessons 
against the dementors. If he was helping Black, why 
didn’t he just finish me off then?” 

“Don’t ask me to fathom the way a werewolf’s mind 
works,” hissed Snape. “Get out of the way, Potter.” 

“YOU’RE PATHETIC!” Harry yelled. “JUST BECAUSE 
THEY MADE A FOOL OF YOU AT SCHOOL YOU 
WONT EVEN LISTEN — ” 

“SILENCE! I WILL NOT BE SPOKEN TO LIKE THAT!” 
Snape shrieked, looking madder than ever. “Like 
father, like son, Potter! I have just saved your neck; 
you should be thanking me on bended knee! You 
would have been well served if he’d killed you! You’d 
have died like your father, too arrogant to believe you 
might be mistaken in Black — now get out of the way, 
or I will make you. GET OUT OF THE WAY, POTTER!” 

Harry made up his mind in a split second. Before 
Snape could take even one step toward him, he had 
raised his wand. 



Page | 403 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“ Expelliarmus\” he yelled — except that his wasn’t the 
only voice that shouted. There was a blast that made 
the door rattle on its hinges; Snape was lifted off his 
feet and slammed into the wall, then slid down it to 
the floor, a trickle of blood oozing from under his hair. 
He had been knocked out. 

Harry looked around. Both Ron and Hermione had 
tried to disarm Snape at exactly the same moment. 
Snape ’s wand soared in a high arc and landed on the 
bed next to Crookshanks. 

“You shouldn’t have done that,” said Black, looking at 
Harry. “You should have left him to me. ...” 

Harry avoided Black’s eyes. He wasn’t sure, even now, 
that he’d done the right thing. 

“We attacked a teacher. ... We attacked a teacher ... ,” 
Hermione whimpered, staring at the lifeless Snape 
with frightened eyes. “Oh, we’re going to be in so 
much trouble — ” 

Lupin was struggling against his bonds. Black bent 
down quickly and untied him. Lupin straightened up, 
rubbing his arms where the ropes had cut into them. 

“Thank you, Harry,” he said. 

“I’m still not saying I believe you,” he told Lupin. 

“Then it’s time we offered you some proof,” said 
Lupin. “You, boy — give me Peter, please. Now.” 

Ron clutched Scabbers closer to his chest. 

“Come off it,” he said weakly. “Are you trying to say 
he broke out of Azkaban just to get his hands on 
Scabbers ? I mean ...” He looked up at Harry and 

Page | 404 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione for support, “Okay, say Pettigrew could 
turn into a rat — there are millions of rats — how’s he 
supposed to know which one he’s after if he was 
locked up in Azkaban?” 

“You know, Sirius, that’s a fair question,” said Lupin, 
turning to Black and frowning slightly. “How did you 
find out where he was?” 

Black put one of his clawlike hands inside his robes 
and took out a crumpled piece of paper, which he 
smoothed flat and held out to show the others. 

It was the photograph of Ron and his family that had 
appeared in the Daily Prophet the previous summer, 
and there, on Ron’s shoulder, was Scabbers. 

“How did you get this?” Lupin asked Black, 
thunderstruck. 

“Fudge,” said Black. “When he came to inspect 
Azkaban last year, he gave me his paper. And there 
was Peter, on the front page ... on this boy’s shoulder. 
... I knew him at once . . . how many times had I seen 
him transform? And the caption said the boy would 
be going back to Hogwarts ... to where Harry was. ...” 

“My God,” said Lupin softly, staring from Scabbers to 
the picture in the paper and back again. “His front 
paw ...” 

“What about it?” said Ron defiantly. 

“He’s got a toe missing,” said Black. 

“Of course,” Lupin breathed. “So simple ... so brilliant 
... he cut it off himself?” 



Page | 405 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Just before he transformed,” said Black. “When I 
cornered him, he yelled for the whole street to hear 
that I’d betrayed Lily and James. Then, before I could 
curse him, he blew apart the street with the wand 
behind his back, killed everyone within twenty feet of 
himself — and sped down into the sewer with the 
other rats. ...” 

“Didn’t you ever hear, Ron?” said Lupin. “The biggest 
bit of Peter they found was his finger.” 

“Look, Scabbers probably had a fight with another rat 
or something! He’s been in my family for ages, right — 



“Twelve years, in fact,” said Lupin. “Didn’t you ever 
wonder why he was living so long?” 

“We — we’ve been taking good care of him!” said Ron. 

“Not looking too good at the moment, though, is he?” 
said Lupin. “I’d guess he’s been losing weight ever 
since he heard Sirius was on the loose again. ...” 

“He’s been scared of that mad cat!” said Ron, nodding 
toward Crookshanks, who was still purring on the 
bed. 

But that wasn’t right, Harry thought suddenly. ... 
Scabbers had been looking ill before he met 
Crookshanks . . . ever since Ron’s return from Egypt . . . 
since the time when Black had escaped. ... 

“This cat isn’t mad,” said Black hoarsely. He reached 
out a bony hand and stroked Crookshanks ’s fluffy 
head. “He’s the most intelligent of his kind I’ve ever 
met. He recognized Peter for what he was right away. 
And when he met me, he knew I was no dog. It was a 
while before he trusted me. ... Finally, I managed to 
Page | 406 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




communicate to him what I was after, and he’s been 
helping me. ...” 



“What do you mean?” breathed Hermione. 

“He tried to bring Peter to me, but couldn’t ... so he 
stole the passwords into Gryffindor Tower for me. ... 

As I understand it, he took them from a boy’s bedside 
table. ...” 

Harry’s brain seemed to be sagging under the weight 
of what he was hearing. It was absurd . . . and yet . . . 

“But Peter got wind of what was going on and ran for 
it. ...” croaked Black. “This cat — Crookshanks, did 
you call him? — told me Peter had left blood on the 
sheets. ... I supposed he bit himself. ... Well, faking 
his own death had worked once. ...” 

These words jolted Harry to his senses. 

“And why did he fake his death?” he said furiously. 
“Because he knew you were about to kill him like you 
killed my parents!” 

“No,” said Lupin, “Harry — ” 

“And now you’ve come to finish him off!” 

“Yes, I have,” said Black, with an evil look at 
Scabbers. 

“Then I should’ve let Snape take you!” Harry shouted. 

“Harry,” said Lupin hurriedly, “don’t you see? All this 
time we’ve thought Sirius betrayed your parents, and 
Peter tracked him down — but it was the other way 
around, don’t you see? Peter betrayed your mother 
and father — Sirius tracked Peter down — ” 

Page | 407 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“THAT’S NOT TRUE!” Harry yelled. “HE WAS THEIR 
SECRET-KEEPER! HE SAID SO BEFORE YOU 
TURNED UP. HE SAID HE KILLED THEM!” 

He was pointing at Black, who shook his head slowly; 
the sunken eyes were suddenly overbright. 

“Harry ... I as good as killed them,” he croaked. “I 
persuaded Lily and James to change to Peter at the 
last moment, persuaded them to use him as Secret- 
Keeper instead of me. ... I’m to blame, I know it. ... 
The night they died, I’d arranged to check on Peter, 
make sure he was still safe, but when I arrived at his 
hiding place, he’d gone. Yet there was no sign of a 
struggle. It didn’t feel right. I was scared. I set out for 
your parents’ house straight away. And when I saw 
their house, destroyed, and their bodies ... I realized 
what Peter must’ve done ... what I’d done. ...” 

His voice broke. He turned away. 

“Enough of this,” said Lupin, and there was a steely 
note in his voice Harry had never heard before. 
“There’s one certain way to prove what really 
happened. Ron, give me that rat” 

“What are you going to do with him if I give him to 
you?” Ron asked Lupin tensely. 

“Force him to show himself,” said Lupin. “If he really 
is a rat, it won’t hurt him.” 

Ron hesitated. Then at long last, he held out 
Scabbers and Lupin took him. Scabbers began to 
squeak without stopping, twisting and turning, his 
tiny black eyes bulging in his head. 

“Ready, Sirius?” said Lupin. 



Page | 408 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Black had already retrieved Snape’s wand from the 
bed. He approached Lupin and the struggling rat, and 
his wet eyes suddenly seemed to be burning in his 
face. 

“Together?” he said quietly. 

“I think so,” said Lupin, holding Scabbers tightly in 
one hand and his wand in the other. “On the count of 
three. One — two — THREE!” 

A flash of blue-white light erupted from both wands; 
for a moment, Scabbers was frozen in midair, his 
small gray form twisting madly — Ron yelled — the 
rat fell and hit the floor. There was another blinding 
flash of light and then — 

It was like watching a speeded-up film of a growing 
tree. A head was shooting upward from the ground; 
limbs were sprouting; a moment later, a man was 
standing where Scabbers had been, cringing and 
wringing his hands. Crookshanks was spitting and 
snarling on the bed; the hair on his back was 
standing up. 

He was a very short man, hardly taller than Harry 
and Hermione. His thin, colorless hair was unkempt 
and there was a large bald patch on top. He had the 
shrunken appearance of a plump man who has lost a 
lot of weight in a short time. His skin looked grubby, 
almost like Scabbers ’s fur, and something of the rat 
lingered around his pointed nose and his very small, 
watery eyes. He looked around at them all, his 
breathing fast and shallow. Harry saw his eyes dart to 
the door and back again. 

“Well, hello, Peter,” said Lupin pleasantly, as though 
rats frequently erupted into old school friends around 
him. “Long time, no see.” 

Page | 409 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“S — Sirius ... R — Remus ...” Even Pettigrew’s voice 
was squeaky. Again, his eyes darted toward the door. 
“My friends ... my old friends ...” 

Black’s wand arm rose, but Lupin seized him around 
the wrist, gave him a warning look, then turned again 
to Pettigrew, his voice light and casual. 

“We’ve been having a little chat, Peter, about what 
happened the night Lily and James died. You might 
have missed the finer points while you were 
squeaking around down there on the bed — ” 

“Remus,” gasped Pettigrew, and Harry could see 
beads of sweat breaking out over his pasty face, “you 
don’t believe him, do you... ? He tried to kill me, 
Remus. ...” 

“So we’ve heard,” said Lupin, more coldly. “I’d like to 
clear up one or two little matters with you, Peter, if 
you’d be so — ” 

“He’s come to try and kill me again!” Pettigrew 
squeaked suddenly, pointing at Black, and Harry saw 
that he used his middle finger, because his index was 
missing. “He killed Lily and James and now he’s going 
to kill me too. ... You’ve got to help me, Remus. ...” 

Black’s face looked more skull-like than ever as he 
stared at Pettigrew with his fathomless eyes. 

“No one’s going to try and kill you until we’ve sorted a 
few things out,” said Lupin. 

“Sorted things out?” squealed Pettigrew, looking 
wildly about him once more, eyes taking in the 
boarded windows and, again, the only door. “I knew 
he’d come after me! I knew he’d be back for me! I’ve 
been waiting for this for twelve years!” 

Page | 410 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“You knew Sirius was going to break out of Azkaban?” 
said Lupin, his brow furrowed. “When nobody has 
ever done it before?” 

“He’s got dark powers the rest of us can only dream 
of!” Pettigrew shouted shrilly. “How else did he get out 
of there? I suppose He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named 
taught him a few tricks!” 

Black started to laugh, a horrible, mirthless laugh 
that filled the whole room. 

“Voldemort, teach me tricks?” he said. 

Pettigrew flinched as though Black had brandished a 
whip at him. 

“What, scared to hear your old master’s name?” said 
Black. “I don’t blame you, Peter. His lot aren’t very 
happy with you, are they?” 

“Don’t know what you mean, Sirius — ” muttered 
Pettigrew, his breathing faster than ever. His whole 
face was shining with sweat now. 

“You haven’t been hiding from me for twelve years,” 
said Black. “You’ve been hiding from Voldemort’s old 
supporters. I heard things in Azkaban, Peter. ... They 
all think you’re dead, or you’d have to answer to 
them. ... I’ve heard them screaming all sorts of things 
in their sleep. Sounds like they think the double- 
crosser double-crossed them. Voldemort went to the 
Potters’ on your information ... and Voldemort met his 
downfall there. And not all Voldemort’s supporters 
ended up in Azkaban, did they? There are still plenty 
out here, biding their time, pretending they’ve seen 
the error of their ways. ... If they ever got wind that 
you were still alive, Peter — ” 



Page | 411 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Don’t know ... what you’re talking about... said 
Pettigrew again, more shrilly than ever. He wiped his 
face on his sleeve and looked up at Lupin. “You don’t 
believe this — this madness, Remus — ” 

“I must admit, Peter, I have difficulty in 
understanding why an innocent man would want to 
spend twelve years as a rat,” said Lupin evenly. 

“Innocent, but scared!” squealed Pettigrew. “If 
Voldemort’s supporters were after me, it was because 
I put one of their best men in Azkaban — the spy, 
Sirius Black!” 

Black’s face contorted. 

“How dare you,” he growled, sounding suddenly like 
the bear-sized dog he had been. “I, a spy for 
Voldemort? When did I ever sneak around people who 
were stronger and more powerful than myself? But 
you, Peter — I’ll never understand why I didn’t see 
you were the spy from the start. You always liked big 
friends who’d look after you, didn’t you? It used to be 
us ... me and Remus ... and James. ...” 

Pettigrew wiped his face again; he was almost panting 
for breath. 

“Me, a spy ... must be out of your mind ... never ... 
don’t know how you can say such a — ” 

“Lily and James only made you Secret-Keeper 
because I suggested it,” Black hissed, so venomously 
that Pettigrew took a step backward. “I thought it was 
the perfect plan ... a bluff. ... Voldemort would be 
sure to come after me, would never dream they’d use 
a weak, talentless thing like you. ... It must have been 
the finest moment of your miserable life, telling 
Voldemort you could hand him the Potters.” 

Page | 412 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Pettigrew was muttering distractedly; Harry caught 
words like “far-fetched” and “lunacy,” but he couldn’t 
help paying more attention to the ashen color of 
Pettigrew’s face and the way his eyes continued to 
dart toward the windows and door. 

“Professor Lupin?” said Hermione timidly. “Can — can 
I say something?” 

“Certainly, Hermione,” said Lupin courteously. 

“Well — Scabbers — I mean, this — this man — he’s 
been sleeping in Harry’s dormitory for three years. If 
he’s working for You-Know-Who, how come he never 
tried to hurt Harry before now?” 

“There!” said Pettigrew shrilly, pointing at Ron with 
his maimed hand. “Thank you! You see, Remus? I 
have never hurt a hair of Harry’s head! Why should 
I?” 

“I’ll tell you why,” said Black. “Because you never did 
anything for anyone unless you could see what was in 
it for you. Voldemort’s been in hiding for fifteen years, 
they say he’s half dead. You weren’t about to commit 
murder right under Albus Dumbledore’s nose, for a 
wreck of a wizard who’d lost all of his power, were 
you? You’d want to be quite sure he was the biggest 
bully in the playground before you went back to him, 
wouldn’t you? Why else did you find a wizard family 
to take you in? Keeping an ear out for news, weren’t 
you, Peter? Just in case your old protector regained 
strength, and it was safe to rejoin him. ...” 

Pettigrew opened his mouth and closed it several 
times. He seemed to have lost the ability to talk. 

“Er — Mr. Black — Sirius?” said Hermione. 



Page | 413 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Black jumped at being addressed like this and stared 
at Hermione as though he had never seen anything 
quite like her. 

“If you don’t mind me asking, how — how did you get 
out of Azkaban, if you didn’t use Dark Magic?” 

“Thank you!” gasped Pettigrew, nodding frantically at 
her. “Exactly! Precisely what I — ” 

But Lupin silenced him with a look. Black was 
frowning slightly at Hermione, but not as though he 
were annoyed with her. He seemed to be pondering 
his answer. 

“I don’t know how I did it,” he said slowly. “I think the 
only reason I never lost my mind is that I knew I was 
innocent. That wasn’t a happy thought, so the 
dementors couldn’t suck it out of me ... but it kept me 
sane and knowing who I am . . . helped me keep my 
powers ... so when it all became . . . too much ... I 
could transform in my cell . . . become a dog. 
Dementors can’t see, you know. ...” He swallowed. 
“They feel their way toward people by feeding off their 
emotions. ... They could tell that my feelings were less 
— less human, less complex when I was a dog ... but 
they thought, of course, that I was losing my mind 
like everyone else in there, so it didn’t trouble them. 
But I was weak, very weak, and I had no hope of 
driving them away from me without a wand. ... 

“But then I saw Peter in that picture ... I realized he 
was at Hogwarts with Harry . . . perfectly positioned to 
act, if one hint reached his ears that the Dark Side 
was gathering strength again. ...” 

Pettigrew was shaking his head, mouthing 
noiselessly, but staring all the while at Black as 
though hypnotized. 

Page | 414 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




"... ready to strike at the moment he could be sure of 
allies ... and to deliver the last Potter to them. If he 
gave them Harry, who’d dare say he’d betrayed Lord 
Voldemort? He’d be welcomed back with honors. ... 

“So you see, I had to do something. I was the only one 
who knew Peter was still alive. ...” 

Harry remembered what Mr. Weasley had told Mrs. 
Weasley. “The guards say he’s been talking in his 
sleep ... always the same words ... ‘He’s at Hog warts.’ 



“It was as if someone had lit a fire in my head, and 
the dementors couldn’t destroy it. ... It wasn’t a 
happy feeling ... it was an obsession . . . but it gave me 
strength, it cleared my mind. So, one night when they 
opened my door to bring food, I slipped past them as 
a dog. ... It’s so much harder for them to sense 
animal emotions that they were confused. ... I was 
thin, very thin . . . thin enough to slip through the 
bars. ... I swam as a dog back to the mainland. ... I 
journeyed north and slipped into the Hogwarts 
grounds as a dog. I’ve been living in the forest ever 
since, except when I came to watch the Quidditch, of 
course. You fly as well as your father did, Harry. ...” 

He looked at Harry, who did not look away. 

“Believe me,” croaked Black. “Believe me, Harry. I 
never betrayed James and Lily. I would have died 
before I betrayed them.” 

And at long last, Harry believed him. Throat too tight 
to speak, he nodded. 

“No!” 



Page | 415 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Pettigrew had fallen to his knees as though Harry’s 
nod had been his own death sentence. He shuffled 
forward on his knees, groveling, his hands clasped in 
front of him as though praying. 

“Sirius — it’s me ... it’s Peter ... your friend ... you 
wouldn’t ...” 

Black kicked out and Pettigrew recoiled. 

“There’s enough filth on my robes without you 
touching them,” said Black. 

“Remus!” Pettigrew squeaked, turning to Lupin 
instead, writhing imploringly in front of him. “You 
don’t believe this ... wouldn’t Sirius have told you 
they’d changed the plan?” 

“Not if he thought I was the spy, Peter,” said Lupin. “I 
assume that’s why you didn’t tell me, Sirius?” he said 
casually over Pettigrew’s head. 

“Forgive me, Remus,” said Black. 

“Not at all, Padfoot, old friend,” said Lupin, who was 
now rolling up his sleeves. “And will you, in turn, 
forgive me for believing you were the spy?” 

“Of course,” said Black, and the ghost of a grin flitted 
across his gaunt face. He, too, began rolling up his 
sleeves. “Shall we kill him together?” 

“Yes, I think so,” said Lupin grimly. 

“You wouldn’t ... you won’t... ,” gasped Pettigrew. And 
he scrambled around to Ron. 



Page | 416 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Ron ... haven’t I been a good friend ... a good pet? 

You won’t let them kill me, Ron, will you ... you’re on 
my side, aren’t you?” 

But Ron was staring at Pettigrew with the utmost 
revulsion. 

“I let you sleep in my bed\” he said. 

“Kind boy ... kind master ...” Pettigrew crawled toward 
Ron, “you won’t let them do it. ... I was your rat. ... I 
was a good pet. ...” 

“If you made a better rat than a human, it’s not much 
to boast about, Peter,” said Black harshly. Ron, going 
still paler with pain, wrenched his broken leg out of 
Pettigrew’s reach. Pettigrew turned on his knees, 
staggered forward, and seized the hem of Hermione’s 
robes. 

“Sweet girl ... clever girl ... you — you won’t let them. 
... Help me. ...” 

Hermione pulled her robes out of Pettigrew’s 
clutching hands and backed away against the wall, 
looking horrified. 

Pettigrew knelt, trembling uncontrollably, and turned 
his head slowly toward Harry. 

“Harry ... Harry ... you look just like your father ... 
just like him. ...” 

“HOW DARE YOU SPEAK TO HARRY?” roared Black. 
“HOW DARE YOU FACE HIM? HOW DARE YOU TALK 
ABOUT JAMES IN FRONT OF HIM?” 

“Harry,” whispered Pettigrew, shuffling toward him, 
hands outstretched. “Harry, James wouldn’t have 

Page | 417 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




wanted me killed. ... James would have understood, 
Harry ... he would have shown me mercy. ...” 



Both Black and Lupin strode forward, seized 
Pettigrew’s shoulders, and threw him backward onto 
the floor. He sat there, twitching with terror, staring 
up at them. 

“You sold Lily and James to Voldemort,” said Black, 
who was shaking too. “Do you deny it?” 

Pettigrew burst into tears. It was horrible to watch, 
like an oversized, balding baby, cowering on the floor. 

“Sirius, Sirius, what could I have done? The Dark 
Lord . . . you have no idea ... he has weapons you can’t 
imagine. ... I was scared, Sirius, I was never brave 
like you and Remus and James. I never meant it to 
happen. ... He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named forced me — 



“DONT LIE!” bellowed Black. “YOU’D BEEN PASSING 
INFORMATION TO HIM FOR A YEAR BEFORE LILY 
AND JAMES DIED! YOU WERE HIS SPY!” 

“He — he was taking over everywhere!” gasped 
Pettigrew. “Wh — what was there to be gained by 
refusing him?” 

“What was there to be gained by fighting the most evil 
wizard who has ever existed?” said Black, with a 
terribly fury in his face. “Only innocent lives, Peter!” 

“You don’t understand!” whined Pettigrew. “He would 
have killed me, Sirius!” 

“THEN YOU SHOULD HAVE DIED!” roared Black. 
“DIED RATHER THAN BETRAY YOUR FRIENDS, AS 
WE WOULD HAVE DONE FOR YOU!” 

Page | 418 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Black and Lupin stood shoulder to shoulder, wands 
raised. 

“You should have realized,” said Lupin quietly, “if 
Voldemort didn’t kill you, we would. Good-bye, Peter.” 

Hermione covered her face with her hands and turned 
to the wall. 

“NO!” Harry yelled. He ran forward, placing himself in 
front of Pettigrew, facing the wands. “You can’t kill 
him,” he said breathlessly. “You can’t.” 

Black and Lupin both looked staggered. 

“Harry, this piece of vermin is the reason you have no 
parents,” Black snarled. “This cringing bit of filth 
would have seen you die too, without turning a hair. 
You heard him. His own stinking skin meant more to 
him than your whole family.” 

“I know,” Harry panted. “We’ll take him up to the 
castle. We’ll hand him over to the dementors. ... He 
can go to Azkaban ... but don’t kill him.” 

“Harry!” gasped Pettigrew, and he flung his arms 
around Harry’s knees. “You — thank you — it’s more 
than I deserve — thank you — ” 

“Get off me,” Harry spat, throwing Pettigrew’s hands 
off him in disgust. “I’m not doing this for you. I’m 
doing it because — I don’t reckon my dad would’ve 
wanted them to become killers — just for you.” 

No one moved or made a sound except Pettigrew, 
whose breath was coming in wheezes as he clutched 
his chest. Black and Lupin were looking at each 
other. Then, with one movement, they lowered their 
wands. 

Page | 419 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“You’re the only person who has the right to decide, 
Harry,” said Black. “But think ... think what he did. 



“He can go to Azkaban,” Harry repeated. “If anyone 
deserves that place, he does. ...” 

Pettigrew was still wheezing behind him. 

“Very well,” said Lupin. “Stand aside, Harry.” 

Harry hesitated. 

“I’m going to tie him up,” said Lupin. “That’s all, I 
swear.” 

Harry stepped out of the way. Thin cords shot from 
Lupin’s wand this time, and next moment, Pettigrew 
was wriggling on the floor, bound and gagged. 

“But if you transform, Peter,” growled Black, his own 
wand pointing at Pettigrew too, “we will kill you. You 
agree, Harry?” 

Harry looked down at the pitiful figure on the floor 
and nodded so that Pettigrew could see him. 

“Right,” said Lupin, suddenly businesslike. “Ron, I 
can’t mend bones nearly as well as Madam Pomfrey, 
so I think it’s best if we just strap your leg up until we 
can get you to the hospital wing.” 

He hurried over to Ron, bent down, tapped Ron’s leg 
with his wand, and muttered, “Ferula.” Bandages 
spun up Ron’s leg, strapping it tightly to a splint. 
Lupin helped him to his feet; Ron put his weight 
gingerly on the leg and didn’t wince. 

“That’s better,” he said. “Thanks.” 

Page | 420 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“What about Professor Snape?” said Hermione in a 
small voice, looking down at Snape’s prone figure. 



“There’s nothing seriously wrong with him,” said 
Lupin, bending over Snape and checking his pulse. 
“You were just a little — overenthusiastic. Still out 
cold. Er — perhaps it will be best if we don’t revive 
him until we’re safely back in the castle. We can take 
him like this. ...” 

He muttered, “Mobilicorpus.” As though invisible 
strings were tied to Snape’s wrists, neck, and knees, 
he was pulled into a standing position, head still 
lolling unpleasantly, like a grotesque puppet. He hung 
a few inches above the ground, his limp feet dangling. 
Lupin picked up the Invisibility Cloak and tucked it 
safely into his pocket. 

“And two of us should be chained to this,” said Black, 
nudging Pettigrew with his toe. “Just to make sure.” 

“I’ll do it,” said Lupin. 

“And me,” said Ron savagely, limping forward. 

Black conjured heavy manacles from thin air; soon 
Pettigrew was upright again, left arm chained to 
Lupin’s right, right arm to Ron’s left. Ron’s face was 
set. He seemed to have taken Scabbers’s true identity 
as a personal insult. Crookshanks leapt lightly off the 
bed and led the way out of the room, his bottlebrush 
tail held jauntily high. 



Page | 421 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 






THE DEMENTOR’S KISS 

Harry had never been part of a stranger group. 
Crookshanks led the way down the stairs; Lupin, 
Pettigrew, and Ron went next, looking like entrants in 
a six-legged race. Next came Professor Snape, drifting 
creepily along, his toes hitting each stair as they 
descended, held up by his own wand, which was 
being pointed at him by Sirius. Harry and Hermione 
brought up the rear. 

Getting back into the tunnel was difficult. Lupin, 
Pettigrew, and Ron had to turn sideways to manage 
it; Lupin still had Pettigrew covered with his wand. 
Harry could see them edging awkwardly along the 
tunnel in single file. Crookshanks was still in the 
lead. Harry went right after Black, who was still 
making Snape drift along ahead of them; he kept 
bumping his lolling head on the low ceiling. Harry 
had the impression Black was making no effort to 
prevent this. 



Page | 422 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



“You know what this means?” Black said abruptly to 
Harry as they made their slow progress along the 
tunnel. “Turning Pettigrew in?” 

“You’re free,” said Harry. 

“Yes ... ,” said Black. “But I’m also — I don’t know if 
anyone ever told you — I’m your godfather.” 

“Yeah, I knew that,” said Harry. 

“Well ... your parents appointed me your guardian,” 
said Black stiffly. “If anything happened to them ...” 

Harry waited. Did Black mean what he thought he 
meant? 

“I’ll understand, of course, if you want to stay with 
your aunt and uncle,” said Black. “But ... well ... 
think about it. Once my name’s cleared ... if you 
wanted a ... a different home ...” 

Some sort of explosion took place in the pit of Harry’s 
stomach. 

“What — live with you?” he said, accidentally cracking 
his head on a bit of rock protruding from the ceiling. 
“Leave the Dursleys?” 

“Of course, I thought you wouldn’t want to,” said 
Black quickly. “I understand, I just thought I’d — ” 

“Are you insane?” said Harry, his voice easily as 
croaky as Black’s. “Of course I want to leave the 
Dursleys! Have you got a house? When can I move 
in?” 



Page | 423 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Black turned right around to look at him; Snape’s 
head was scraping the ceiling but Black didn’t seem 
to care. 

“You want to?” he said. “You mean it?” 

“Yeah, I mean it!” said Harry. 

Black’s gaunt face broke into the first true smile 
Harry had seen upon it. The difference it made was 
startling, as though a person ten years younger were 
shining through the starved mask; for a moment, he 
was recognizable as the man who had laughed at 
Harry’s parents’ wedding. 

They did not speak again until they had reached the 
end of the tunnel. Crookshanks darted up first; he 
had evidently pressed his paw to the knot on the 
trunk, because Lupin, Pettigrew, and Ron clambered 
upward without any sound of savaging branches. 

Black saw Snape up through the hole, then stood 
back for Harry and Hermione to pass. At last, all of 
them were out. 

The grounds were very dark now; the only light came 
from the distant windows of the castle. Without a 
word, they set off. Pettigrew was still wheezing and 
occasionally whimpering. Harry’s mind was buzzing. 
He was going to leave the Dursleys. He was going to 
live with Sirius Black, his parents’ best friend. ... He 
felt dazed. ... What would happen when he told the 
Dursleys he was going to live with the convict they’d 
seen on television... ! 

“One wrong move, Peter,” said Lupin threateningly 
ahead. His wand was still pointed sideways at 
Pettigrew’s chest. 



Page | 424 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Silently they tramped through the grounds, the castle 
lights growing slowly larger. Snape was still drifting 
weirdly ahead of Black, his chin bumping on his 
chest. And then — 

A cloud shifted. There were suddenly dim shadows on 
the ground. Their party was bathed in moonlight. 

Snape collided with Lupin, Pettigrew, and Ron, who 
had stopped abruptly. Black froze. He flung out one 
arm to make Harry and Hermione stop. 

Harry could see Lupin’s silhouette. He had gone rigid. 
Then his limbs began to shake. 

“Oh, my — ” Hermione gasped. “He didn’t take his 
potion tonight! He’s not safe!” 

“Run,” Black whispered. “Run. Now.” 

But Harry couldn’t run. Ron was chained to Pettigrew 
and Lupin. He leapt forward but Black caught him 
around the chest and threw him back. 

“Leave it to me — RUN!” 

There was a terrible snarling noise. Lupin’s head was 
lengthening. So was his body. His shoulders were 
hunching. Hair was sprouting visibly on his face and 
hands, which were curling into clawed paws. 
Crookshanks’s hair was on end again; he was backing 
away — 

As the werewolf reared, snapping its long jaws, Sirius 
disappeared from Harry’s side. He had transformed. 
The enormous, bearlike dog bounded forward. As the 
werewolf wrenched itself free of the manacle binding 
it, the dog seized it about the neck and pulled it 



Page | 425 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




backward, away from Ron and Pettigrew. They were 
locked, jaw to jaw, claws ripping at each other — 

Harry stood, transfixed by the sight, too intent upon 
the battle to notice anything else. It was Hermione’s 
scream that alerted him — 

Pettigrew had dived for Lupin’s dropped wand. Ron, 
unsteady on his bandaged leg, fell. There was a bang, 
a burst of light — and Ron lay motionless on the 
ground. Another bang — Crookshanks flew into the 
air and back to the earth in a heap. 

“ ExpelliarmusV’ Harry yelled, pointing his own wand 
at Pettigrew; Lupin’s wand flew high into the air and 
out of sight. “Stay where you are!” Harry shouted, 
running forward. 

Too late. Pettigrew had transformed. Harry saw his 
bald tail whip through the manacle on Ron’s 
outstretched arm and heard a scurrying through the 
grass. 

There was a howl and a rumbling growl; Harry turned 
to see the werewolf taking flight; it was galloping into 
the forest — 

“Sirius, he’s gone, Pettigrew transformed!” Harry 
yelled. 

Black was bleeding; there were gashes across his 
muzzle and back, but at Harry’s words he scrambled 
up again, and in an instant, the sound of his paws 
faded to silence as he pounded away across the 
grounds. 

Harry and Hermione dashed over to Ron. 



Page | 426 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“What did he do to him?” Hermione whispered. Ron’s 
eyes were only half-closed, his mouth hung open; he 
was definitely alive, they could hear him breathing, 
but he didn’t seem to recognize them. 

“I don’t know. ...” 

Harry looked desperately around. Black and Lupin 
both gone . . . they had no one but Snape for company, 
still hanging, unconscious, in midair. 

“We’d better get them up to the castle and tell 
someone,” said Harry, pushing his hair out of his 
eyes, trying to think straight. Come — ” 

But then, from beyond the range of their vision, they 
heard a yelping, a whining: a dog in pain. ... 

“Sirius,” Harry muttered, staring into the darkness. 

He had a moment’s indecision, but there was nothing 
they could do for Ron at the moment, and by the 
sound of it, Black was in trouble — 

Harry set off at a run, Hermione right behind him. 

The yelping seemed to be coming from the ground 
near the edge of the lake. They pelted toward it, and 
Harry, running flat out, felt the cold without realizing 
what it must mean — 

The yelping stopped abruptly. As they reached the 
lakeshore, they saw why — Sirius had turned back 
into a man. He was crouched on all fours, his hands 
over his head. 

“iVooo,” he moaned. “Noooo ... please. ...” 

And then Harry saw them. Dementors, at least a 
hundred of them, gliding in a black mass around the 

Page | 427 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




lake toward them. He spun around, the familiar, icy 
cold penetrating his insides, fog starting to obscure 
his vision; more were appearing out of the darkness 
on every side; they were encircling them. ... 

“Hermione, think of something happy!” Harry yelled, 
raising his wand, blinking furiously to try and clear 
his vision, shaking his head to rid it of the faint 
screaming that had started inside it — 

I’m going to live with my godfather. I’m leaving the 
Dursleys. 

He forced himself to think of Black, and only Black, 
and began to chant: “Expecto patronum). Expecto 
patronum).” 

Black gave a shudder, rolled over, and lay motionless 
on the ground, pale as death. 

Hell be all right. I’m going to go and live with him. 

“Expecto patronum). Hermione, help me! Expecto 
patronum).” 

“Expecto — ” Hermione whispered, “expecto — expecto 



But she couldn’t do it. The dementors were closing in, 
barely ten feet from them. They formed a solid wall 
around Harry and Hermione, and were getting closer. 



“EXPECTO PATRONUM” Harry yelled, trying to blot 
the screaming from his ears. “EXPECTO PATRONUM.” 

A thin wisp of silver escaped his wand and hovered 
like mist before him. At the same moment, Harry felt 



Page | 428 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione collapse next to him. He was alone ... 
completely alone. ... 

“Expecto — expecto patronum — ” 

Harry felt his knees hit the cold grass. Fog was 
clouding his eyes. With a huge effort, he fought to 
remember — Sirius was innocent — innocent — We’ll 
be okay — I’m going to live with him — 

“ Expecto patronum J” he gasped. 

By the feeble light of his formless Patronus, he saw a 
dementor halt, very close to him. It couldn’t walk 
through the cloud of silver mist Harry had conjured. 

A dead, slimy hand slid out from under the cloak. It 
made a gesture as though to sweep the Patronus 
aside. 

“No — no — ” Harry gasped. “He’s innocent ... expecto 
— expecto patronum — ” 

He could feel them watching him, hear their rattling 
breath like an evil wind around him. The nearest 
dementor seemed to be considering him. Then it 
raised both its rotting hands — and lowered its hood. 

Where there should have been eyes, there was only 
thin, gray scabbed skin, stretched blankly over empty 
sockets. But there was a mouth ... a gaping, 
shapeless hole, sucking the air with the sound of a 
death rattle. 

A paralyzing terror filled Harry so that he couldn’t 
move or speak. His Patronus flickered and died. 

White fog was blinding him. He had to fight ... expecto 
patronum ... he couldn’t see ... and in the distance, he 
heard the familiar screaming . . . expecto patronum . . . 

Page | 429 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




he groped in the mist for Sirius, and found his arm ... 
they weren’t going to take him. ... 

But a pair of strong, clammy hands suddenly 
attached themselves around Harry’s neck. They were 
forcing his face upward. ... He could feel its breath. ... 
It was going to get rid of him first. ... He could feel its 
putrid breath. . . . His mother was screaming in his 
ears. ... She was going to be the last thing he ever 
heard — 

And then, through the fog that was drowning him, he 
thought he saw a silvery light growing brighter and 
brighter. ... He felt himself fall forward onto the grass. 
... Facedown, too weak to move, sick and shaking, 
Harry opened his eyes. The dementor must have 
released him. The blinding light was illuminating the 
grass around him. ... The screaming had stopped, the 
cold was ebbing away. . . . 

Something was driving the dementors back. ... It was 
circling around him and Black and Hermione. ... They 
were leaving. ... The air was warm again. ... 

With every ounce of strength he could muster, Harry 
raised his head a few inches and saw an animal amid 
the light, galloping away across the lake. ... Eyes 
blurred with sweat, Harry tried to make out what it 
was. ... It was as bright as a unicorn. ... Fighting to 
stay conscious, Harry watched it canter to a halt as it 
reached the opposite shore. For a moment, Harry 
saw, by its brightness, somebody welcoming it back 
. . . raising his hand to pat it . . . someone who looked 
strangely familiar ... but it couldn’t be ... 

Harry didn’t understand. He couldn’t think anymore. 
He felt the last of his strength leave him, and his head 
hit the ground as he fainted. 



Page | 430 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 





HERMIONE’S SECRET 

“Shocking business ... shocking ... miracle none of 
them died . . . never heard the like ... by thunder, it 
was lucky you were there, Snape. ...” 

“Thank you, Minister.” 

“Order of Merlin, Second Class, I’d say. First Class, if 
I can wangle it!” 

“Thank you very much indeed, Minister.” 

“Nasty cut you’ve got there. ... Black’s work, I 
suppose?” 

“As a matter of fact, it was Potter, Weasley, and 
Granger, Minister. ...” 

“iVo!” 

“Black had bewitched them, I saw it immediately. A 
Confundus Charm, to judge by their behavior. They 
seemed to think there was a possibility he was 

Page | 431 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



innocent. They weren’t responsible for their actions. 
On the other hand, their interference might have 
permitted Black to escape. ... They obviously thought 
they were going to catch Black single-handed. They’ve 
got away with a great deal before now. ... I’m afraid 
it’s given them a rather high opinion of themselves ... 
and of course Potter has always been allowed an 
extraordinary amount of license by the headmaster — 



“Ah, well, Snape ... Harry Potter, you know ... we’ve 
all got a bit of a blind spot where he’s concerned.” 

“And yet — is it good for him to be given so much 
special treatment? Personally, I try and treat him like 
any other student. And any other student would be 
suspended — at the very least — for leading his 
friends into such danger. Consider, Minister — 
against all school rules — after all the precautions 
put in place for his protection — out-of-bounds, at 
night, consorting with a werewolf and a murderer — 
and I have reason to believe he has been visiting 
Hogsmeade illegally too — ” 

“Well, well ... we shall see, Snape, we shall see. ... The 
boy has undoubtedly been foolish. ...” 

Harry lay listening with his eyes tight shut. He felt 
very groggy. The words he was hearing seemed to be 
traveling very slowly from his ears to his brain, so 
that it was difficult to understand. ... His limbs felt 
like lead; his eyelids too heavy to lift. ... He wanted to 
lie here, on this comfortable bed, forever. ... 

“What amazes me most is the behavior of the 
dementors ... you’ve really no idea what made them 
retreat, Snape?” 



Page | 432 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“No, Minister ... by the time I had come ’round they 
were heading back to their positions at the entrances. 



“Extraordinary. And yet Black, and Harry, and the girl 



“All unconscious by the time I reached them. I bound 
and gagged Black, naturally, conjured stretchers, and 
brought them all straight back to the castle.” 

There was a pause. Harry’s brain seemed to be 
moving a little faster, and as it did, a gnawing 
sensation grew in the pit of his stomach. ... 

He opened his eyes. 

Everything was slightly blurred. Somebody had 
removed his glasses. He was lying in the dark hospital 
wing. At the very end of the ward, he could make out 
Madam Pomfrey with her back to him, bending over a 
bed. Harry squinted. Ron’s red hair was visible 
beneath Madam Pomfrey’s arm. 

Harry moved his head over on the pillow. In the bed 
to his right lay Hermione. Moonlight was falling 
across her bed. Her eyes were open too. She looked 
petrified, and when she saw that Harry was awake, 
pressed a finger to her lips, then pointed to the 
hospital wing door. It was ajar, and the voices of 
Cornelius Fudge and Snape were coming through it 
from the corridor outside. 

Madam Pomfrey now came walking briskly up the 
dark ward to Harry’s bed. He turned to look at her. 
She was carrying the largest block of chocolate he 
had ever seen in his life. It looked like a small 
boulder. 



Page | 433 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Ah, you’re awake!” she said briskly. She placed the 
chocolate on Harry’s bedside table and began 
breaking it apart with a small hammer. 

“How’s Ron?” said Harry and Hermione together. 

“He’ll live,” said Madam Pomfrey grimly. “As for you 
two ... you’ll be staying here until I’m satisfied you’re 
— Potter, what do you think you’re doing?” 

Harry was sitting up, putting his glasses back on, and 
picking up his wand. 

“I need to see the headmaster,” he said. 

“Potter,” said Madam Pomfrey soothingly, “it’s all 
right. They’ve got Black. He’s locked away upstairs. 
The dementors will be performing the kiss any 
moment now — ” 

“WHAT?” 

Harry jumped up out of bed; Hermione had done the 
same. But his shout had been heard in the corridor 
outside; next second, Cornelius Fudge and Snape had 
entered the ward. 

“Harry, Harry, what’s this?” said Fudge, looking 
agitated. “You should be in bed — has he had any 
chocolate?” he asked Madam Pomfrey anxiously. 

“Minister, listen!” Harry said. “Sirius Black’s innocent! 
Peter Pettigrew faked his own death! We saw him 
tonight! You can’t let the dementors do that thing to 
Sirius, he’s — ” 

But Fudge was shaking his head with a small smile 
on his face. 



Page | 434 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry, Harry, you’re very confused, you’ve been 
through a dreadful ordeal, lie back down, now, we’ve 
got everything under control. ...” 

“YOU HAVEN’T!” Harry yelled. “YOU VE GOT THE 
WRONG MAN!” 

“Minister, listen, please,” Hermione said; she had 
hurried to Harry’s side and was gazing imploringly 
into Fudge’s face. “I saw him too. It was Ron’s rat, 
he’s an Animagus, Pettigrew, I mean, and — ” 

“You see, Minister?” said Snape. “Confunded, both of 
them. ... Black’s done a very good job on them. ...” 

“WE’RE NOT CONFUNDED!” Harry roared. 

“Minister! Professor!” said Madam Pomfrey angrily. “I 
must insist that you leave. Potter is my patient, and 
he should not be distressed!” 

“I’m not distressed, I’m trying to tell them what 
happened!” Harry said furiously. “If they’d just listen 



But Madam Pomfrey suddenly stuffed a large chunk 
of chocolate into Harry’s mouth; he choked, and she 
seized the opportunity to force him back onto the bed. 

“Now, please, Minister, these children need care. 
Please leave — ” 

The door opened again. It was Dumbledore. Harry 
swallowed his mouthful of chocolate with great 
difficulty and got up again. 

“Professor Dumbledore, Sirius Black — ” 



Page | 435 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“For heaven’s sake!” said Madam Pomfrey 
hysterically. “Is this a hospital wing or not? 
Headmaster, I must insist — ” 

“My apologies, Poppy, but I need a word with Mr. 
Potter and Miss Granger,” said Dumbledore calmly. “I 
have just been talking to Sirius Black — ” 

“I suppose he’s told you the same fairy tale he’s 
planted in Potter’s mind?” spat Snape. “Something 
about a rat, and Pettigrew being alive — ” 

“That, indeed, is Black’s story,” said Dumbledore, 
surveying Snape closely through his half-moon 
spectacles. 

“And does my evidence count for nothing?” snarled 
Snape. “Peter Pettigrew was not in the Shrieking 
Shack, nor did I see any sign of him on the grounds.” 

“That was because you were knocked out, Professor!” 
said Hermione earnestly. “You didn’t arrive in time to 
hear — ” 

“Miss Granger, HOLD YOUR TONGUE!” 

“Now, Snape,” said Fudge, startled, “the young lady is 
disturbed in her mind, we must make allowances — ” 

“I would like to speak to Harry and Hermione alone,” 
said Dumbledore abruptly. “Cornelius, Severus, 

Poppy — please leave us.” 

“Headmaster!” sputtered Madam Pomfrey “They need 
treatment, they need rest — ” 

“This cannot wait,” said Dumbledore. “I must insist.” 



Page | 436 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Madam Pomfrey pursed her lips and strode away into 
her office at the end of the ward, slamming the door 
behind her. Fudge consulted the large gold pocket 
watch dangling from his waistcoat. 

“The dementors should have arrived by now,” he said. 
“Ill go and meet them. Dumbledore, 111 see you 
upstairs.” 

He crossed to the door and held it open for Snape, 
but Snape hadn’t moved. 

“You surely don’t believe a word of Black’s story?” 
Snape whispered, his eyes fixed on Dumbledore ’s 
face. 

“I wish to speak to Harry and Hermione alone,” 
Dumbledore repeated. 

Snape took a step toward Dumbledore. 

“Sirius Black showed he was capable of murder at the 
age of sixteen,” he breathed. “You haven’t forgotten 
that, Headmaster? You haven’t forgotten that he once 
tried to kill me?” 

“My memory is as good as it ever was, Severus,” said 
Dumbledore quietly. 

Snape turned on his heel and marched through the 
door Fudge was still holding. It closed behind them, 
and Dumbledore turned to Harry and Hermione. They 
both burst into speech at the same time. 

“Professor, Black’s telling the truth — we saw 
Pettigrew — ” 

“ — he escaped when Professor Lupin turned into a 
werewolf — ” 

Page | 437 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“ — he’s a rat — ” 



“ — Pettigrew’s front paw, I mean, finger, he cut it off 



“ — Pettigrew attacked Ron, it wasn’t Sirius — ” 

But Dumbledore held up his hand to stem the flood of 
explanations. 

“It is your turn to listen, and I beg you will not 
interrupt me, because there is very little time,” he 
said quietly. “There is not a shred of proof to support 
Black’s story, except your word — and the word of 
two thirteen-year-old wizards will not convince 
anybody. A street full of eyewitnesses swore they saw 
Sirius murder Pettigrew. I myself gave evidence to the 
Ministry that Sirius had been the Potters’ Secret- 
Keeper.” 

“Professor Lupin can tell you — ” Harry said, unable to 
stop himself. 

“Professor Lupin is currently deep in the forest, 
unable to tell anyone anything. By the time he is 
human again, it will be too late, Sirius will be worse 
than dead. I might add that werewolves are so 
mistrusted by most of our kind that his support will 
count for very little — and the fact that he and Sirius 
are old friends — ” 

“But — ” 

“ Listen to me, Harry. It is too late, you understand 
me? You must see that Professor Snape’s version of 
events is far more convincing than yours.” 

“He hates Sirius,” Hermione said desperately. “All 
because of some stupid trick Sirius played on him — ” 

Page | 438 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Sirius has not acted like an innocent man. The 
attack on the Fat Lady — entering Gryffindor Tower 
with a knife — without Pettigrew, alive or dead, we 
have no chance of overturning Sirius’s sentence.” 

“But you believe us.” 

“Yes, I do,” said Dumbledore quietly. “But I have no 
power to make other men see the truth, or to overrule 
the Minister of Magic. ...” 

Harry stared up into the grave face and felt as though 
the ground beneath him were falling sharply away. He 
had grown used to the idea that Dumbledore could 
solve anything. He had expected Dumbledore to pull 
some amazing solution out of the air. But no . . . their 
last hope was gone. 

“What we need,” said Dumbledore slowly, and his 
light blue eyes moved from Harry to Hermione, “is 
more time.” 

“But — ” Hermione began. And then her eyes became 
very round. “OH!” 

“Now, pay attention,” said Dumbledore, speaking very 
low, and very clearly. “Sirius is locked in Professor 
Flitwick’s office on the seventh floor. Thirteenth 
window from the right of the West Tower. If all goes 
well, you will be able to save more than one innocent 
life tonight. But remember this, both of you: you must 
not be seen. Miss Granger, you know the law — you 
know what is at stake. ... You — must — not — be — 
seen.” 

Harry didn’t have a clue what was going on. 
Dumbledore had turned on his heel and looked back 
as he reached the door. 



Page | 439 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“I am going to lock you in. It is — ” he consulted his 
watch, “five minutes to midnight. Miss Granger, three 
turns should do it. Good luck.” 

“Good luck?” Harry repeated as the door closed 
behind Dumbledore. “Three turns? What’s he talking 
about? What are we supposed to do?” 

But Hermione was fumbling with the neck of her 
robes, pulling from beneath them a very long, very 
fine gold chain. 

“Harry, come here,” she said urgently. “Quick).” 

Harry moved toward her, completely bewildered. She 
was holding the chain out. He saw a tiny, sparkling 
hourglass hanging from it. 

“Here — ” 

She had thrown the chain around his neck too. 

“Ready?” she said breathlessly. 

“What are we doing?” Harry said, completely lost. 

Hermione turned the hourglass over three times. 

The dark ward dissolved. Harry had the sensation 
that he was flying very fast, backward. A blur of 
colors and shapes rushed past him, his ears were 
pounding, he tried to yell but couldn’t hear his own 
voice — 

And then he felt solid ground beneath his feet, and 
everything came into focus again — 

He was standing next to Hermione in the deserted 
entrance hall and a stream of golden sunlight was 

Page | 440 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




falling across the paved floor from the open front 
doors. He looked wildly around at Hermione, the 
chain of the hourglass cutting into his neck. 

“Hermione, what — ?” 

“In here!” Hermione seized Harry’s arm and dragged 
him across the hall to the door of a broom closet; she 
opened it, pushed him inside among the buckets and 
mops, then slammed the door behind them. 

“What — how — Hermione, what happened?” 

“We’ve gone back in time,” Hermione whispered, 
lifting the chain off Harry’s neck in the darkness. 
“Three hours back ...” 

Harry found his own leg and gave it a very hard 
pinch. It hurt a lot, which seemed to rule out the 
possibility that he was having a very bizarre dream. 

“But — ” 

“Shh! Listen! Someone’s coming! I think — I think it 
might be us!” 

Hermione had her ear pressed against the cupboard 
door. 

“Footsteps across the hall ... yes, I think it’s us going 
down to Hagrid’s!” 

“Are you telling me,” Harry whispered, “that we’re 
here in this cupboard and we’re out there too?” 

“Yes,” said Hermione, her ear still glued to the 
cupboard door. “I’m sure it’s us. It doesn’t sound like 
more than three people ... and we’re walking slowly 
because we’re under the Invisibility Cloak — ” 

Page | 441 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




She broke off, still listening intently. 



“We’ve gone down the front steps. ...” 

Hermione sat down on an upturned bucket, looking 
desperately anxious, but Harry wanted a few 
questions answered. 

“Where did you get that hourglass thing?” 

“It’s called a Time-Turner,” Hermione whispered, “and 
I got it from Professor McGonagall on our first day 
back. I’ve been using it all year to get to all my 
lessons. Professor McGonagall made me swear I 
wouldn’t tell anyone. She had to write all sorts of 
letters to the Ministry of Magic so I could have one. 
She had to tell them that I was a model student, and 
that I’d never, ever use it for anything except my 
studies. ... I’ve been turning it back so I could do 
hours over again, that’s how I’ve been doing several 
lessons at once, see? But ... 

“Harry, I don’t understand what Dumbledore wants us 
to do. Why did he tell us to go back three hours? 

How’s that going to help Sirius?” 

Harry stared at her shadowy face. 

“There must be something that happened around now 
he wants us to change,” he said slowly. “What 
happened? We were walking down to Hagrid’s three 
hours ago. ...” 

“This is three hours ago, and we are walking down to 
Hagrid’s,” said Hermione. “We just heard ourselves 
leaving. ...” 

Harry frowned; he felt as though he were screwing up 
his whole brain in concentration. 

Page | 442 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Dumbledore just said — just said we could save 
more than one innocent life. ...” And then it hit him. 
“Hermione, we’re going to save Buckbeak!” 

“But — how will that help Sirius?” 

“Dumbledore said — he just told us where the 
window is — the window of Flitwick’s office! Where 
they’ve got Sirius locked up! We’ve got to fly 
Buckbeak up to the window and rescue Sirius! Sirius 
can escape on Buckbeak — they can escape together!” 

From what Harry could see of Hermione’s face, she 
looked terrified. 

“If we manage that without being seen, it’ll be a 
miracle!” 

“Well, we’ve got to try, haven’t we?” said Harry. He 
stood up and pressed his ear against the door. 

“Doesn’t sound like anyone’s there. ... Come on, let’s 

go. ...” 

Harry pushed open the closet door. The entrance hall 
was deserted. As quietly and quickly as they could, 
they darted out of the closet and down the stone 
steps. The shadows were already lengthening, the 
tops of the trees in the Forbidden Forest gilded once 
more with gold. 

“If anyone’s looking out of the window — ” Hermione 
squeaked, looking up at the castle behind them. 

“Well run for it,” said Harry determinedly. “Straight 
into the forest, all right? We’ll have to hide behind a 
tree or something and keep a lookout — ” 



Page | 443 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Okay, but well go around by the greenhouses!” said 
Hermione breathlessly. “We need to keep out of sight 
of Hagrid’s front door, or well see us! We must be 
nearly at Hagrid’s by now!” 

Still working out what she meant, Harry set off at a 
sprint, Hermione behind him. They tore across the 
vegetable gardens to the greenhouses, paused for a 
moment behind them, then set off again, fast as they 
could, skirting around the Whomping Willow, tearing 
toward the shelter of the forest. ... 

Safe in the shadows of the trees, Harry turned 
around; seconds later, Hermione arrived beside him, 
panting. 

“Right,” she gasped. “We need to sneak over to 
Hagrid’s. ... Keep out of sight, Harry. ...” 

They made their way silently through the trees, 
keeping to the very edge of the forest. Then, as they 
glimpsed the front of Hagrid’s house, they heard a 
knock upon his door. They moved quickly behind a 
wide oak trunk and peered out from either side. 

Hagrid had appeared in his doorway, shaking and 
white, looking around to see who had knocked. And 
Harry heard his own voice. 

“It’s us. We’re wearing the Invisibility Cloak. Let us in 
and we can take it off.” 

“Yeh shouldn’ve come!” Hagrid whispered. He stood 
back, then shut the door quickly. 

“This is the weirdest thing we’ve ever done,” Harry 
said fervently. 

“Let’s move along a bit,” Hermione whispered. “We 
need to get nearer to Buckbeak!” 

Page | 444 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




They crept through the trees until they saw the 
nervous hippogriff, tethered to the fence around 
Hagrid’s pumpkin patch. 

“Now?” Harry whispered. 

“No!” said Hermione. “If we steal him now, those 
Committee people will think Hagrid set him free! 

We’ve got to wait until they’ve seen he’s tied outside!” 

“That’s going to give us about sixty seconds,” said 
Harry. This was starting to seem impossible. 

At that moment, there was a crash of breaking china 
from inside Hagrid’s cabin. 

“That’s Hagrid breaking the milk jug,” Hermione 
whispered. “I’m going to find Scabbers in a moment — 



Sure enough, a few minutes later, they heard 
Hermione ’s shriek of surprise. 

“Hermione,” said Harry suddenly, “what if we — we 
just run in there and grab Pettigrew — ” 

“No!” said Hermione in a terrified whisper. “Don’t you 
understand? We’re breaking one of the most 
important wizarding laws! Nobody’s supposed to 
change time, nobody! You heard Dumbledore, if we’re 
seen — ” 

“We’d only be seen by ourselves and Hagrid!” 

“Harry, what do you think you’d do if you saw 
yourself bursting into Hagrid’s house?” said 
Hermione. 



Page | 445 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“I’d — I’d think I’d gone mad,” said Harry, “or I’d think 
there was some Dark Magic going on — ” 



“ Exactly ! You wouldn’t understand, you might even 
attack yourself! Don’t you see? Professor McGonagall 
told me what awful things have happened when 
wizards have meddled with time. ... Loads of them 
ended up killing their past or future selves by 
mistake!” 

“Okay!” said Harry. “It was just an idea, I just thought 



But Hermione nudged him and pointed toward the 
castle. Harry moved his head a few inches to get a 
clear view of the distant front doors. Dumbledore, 
Fudge, the old Committee member, and Macnair the 
executioner were coming down the steps. 

“We’re about to come out!” Hermione breathed. 

And sure enough, moments later, Hagrid’s back door 
opened, and Harry saw himself, Ron, and Hermione 
walking out of it with Hagrid. It was, without a doubt, 
the strangest sensation of his life, standing behind 
the tree, and watching himself in the pumpkin patch. 

“It’s okay, Beaky, it’s okay ... ,” Hagrid said to 
Buckbeak. Then he turned to Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione. “Go on. Get goin’.” 

“Hagrid, we can’t — ” 

“Well tell them what really happened — ” 

“They can’t kill him — ” 

“Go! It’s bad enough without you lot in trouble an’ 
all!” 

Page | 446 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry watched the Hermione in the pumpkin patch 
throw the Invisibility Cloak over him and Ron. 

“Go quick. Don’ listen. ...” 

There was a knock on Hagrid’s front door. The 
execution party had arrived. Hagrid turned around 
and headed back into his cabin, leaving the back door 
ajar. Harry watched the grass flatten in patches all 
around the cabin and heard three pairs of feet 
retreating. He, Ron, and Hermione had gone ... but 
the Harry and Hermione hidden in the trees could 
now hear what was happening inside the cabin 
through the back door. 

“Where is the beast?” came the cold voice of Macnair. 

“Out — outside,” Hagrid croaked. 

Harry pulled his head out of sight as Macnair’s face 
appeared at Hagrid’s window, staring out at 
Buckbeak. Then they heard Fudge. 

“We — er — have to read you the official notice of 
execution, Hagrid. I’ll make it quick. And then you 
and Macnair need to sign it. Macnair, you’re 
supposed to listen too, that’s procedure — ” 

Macnair’s face vanished from the window. It was now 
or never. 

“Wait here,” Harry whispered to Hermione. “I’ll do it.” 

As Fudge’s voice started again, Harry darted out from 
behind his tree, vaulted the fence into the pumpkin 
patch, and approached Buckbeak. 

“It is the decision of the Committee for the Disposal of 
Dangerous Creatures that the hippogriff Buckbeak, 

Page | 447 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




hereafter called the condemned, shall be executed on 
the sixth of June at sundown — ” 

Careful not to blink, Harry stared up into Buckbeak’s 
fierce orange eyes once more and bowed. Buckbeak 
sank to his scaly knees and then stood up again. 
Harry began to fumble with the knot of rope tying 
Buckbeak to the fence. 

"... sentenced to execution by beheading, to be carried 
out by the Committee’s appointed executioner, Walden 
Macnair ...” 

“Come on, Buckbeak,” Harry murmured, “come on, 
we’re going to help you. Quietly ... quietly ...” 

"... as witnessed below. Hagrid, you sign here. ...” 

Harry threw all his weight onto the rope, but 
Buckbeak had dug in his front feet. 

“Well, let’s get this over with,” said the reedy voice of 
the Committee member from inside Hagrid’s cabin. 
“Hagrid, perhaps it will be better if you stay inside — ” 

“No, I — I wan’ ter be with him. ... I don’ wan’ him ter 
be alone — ” 

Footsteps echoed from within the cabin. 

“Buckbeak, move\” Harry hissed. 

Harry tugged harder on the rope around Buckbeak’s 
neck. The hippogriff began to walk, rustling its wings 
irritably. They were still ten feet away from the forest, 
in plain view of Hagrid’s back door. 

“One moment, please, Macnair,” came Dumbledore’s 
voice. “You need to sign too.” The footsteps stopped. 

Page | 448 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry heaved on the rope. Buckbeak snapped his 
beak and walked a little faster. 



Hermione ’s white face was sticking out from behind a 
tree. 

“Harry, hurry!” she mouthed. 

Harry could still hear Dumbledore’s voice talking from 
within the cabin. He gave the rope another wrench. 
Buckbeak broke into a grudging trot. They had 
reached the trees. ... 

“Quick! Quick!” Hermione moaned, darting out from 
behind her tree, seizing the rope too and adding her 
weight to make Buckbeak move faster. Harry looked 
over his shoulder; they were now blocked from sight; 
they couldn’t see Hagrid’s garden at all. 

“Stop!” he whispered to Hermione. “They might hear 
us — ” 



Hagrid’s back door had opened with a bang. Harry, 
Hermione, and Buckbeak stood quite still; even the 
hippogriff seemed to be listening intently. 

Silence . . . then — 

“Where is it?” said the reedy voice of the Committee 
member. “Where is the beast?” 

“It was tied here!” said the executioner furiously. “I 
saw it! Just here!” 

“How extraordinary,” said Dumbledore. There was a 
note of amusement in his voice. 

“Beaky!” said Hagrid huskily. 

Page | 449 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




There was a swishing noise, and the thud of an axe. 
The executioner seemed to have swung it into the 
fence in anger. And then came the howling, and this 
time they could hear Hagrid ’s words through his sobs. 

“Gone! Gone! Bless his little beak, he’s gone\ Musta 
pulled himself free! Beaky, yeh clever boy!” 

Buckbeak started to strain against the rope, trying to 
get back to Hagrid. Harry and Hermione tightened 
their grip and dug their heels into the forest floor to 
stop him. 

“Someone untied him!” the executioner was snarling. 
“We should search the grounds, the forest — ” 

“Macnair, if Buckbeak has indeed been stolen, do you 
really think the thief will have led him away on foot?” 
said Dumbledore, still sounding amused. “Search the 
skies, if you will. ... Hagrid, I could do with a cup of 
tea. Or a large brandy.” 

“O’ — o’ course, Professor,” said Hagrid, who sounded 
weak with happiness. “Come in, come in. ...” 

Harry and Hermione listened closely. They heard 
footsteps, the soft cursing of the executioner, the 
snap of the door, and then silence once more. 

“Now what?” whispered Harry, looking around. 

“Well have to hide in here,” said Hermione, who 
looked very shaken. “We need to wait until they’ve 
gone back to the castle. Then we wait until it’s safe to 
fly Buckbeak up to Sirius’s window. He won’t be there 
for another couple of hours. ... Oh, this is going to be 
difficult. ...” 



Page | 450 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




She looked nervously over her shoulder into the 
depths of the forest. The sun was setting now. 

“We’re going to have to move,” said Harry, thinking 
hard. “We’ve got to be able to see the Whomping 
Willow, or we won’t know what’s going on.” 

“Okay,” said Hermione, getting a firmer grip on 
Buckbeak’s rope. “But we’ve got to keep out of sight, 
Harry, remember. ...” 

They moved around the edge of the forest, darkness 
falling thickly around them, until they were hidden 
behind a clump of trees through which they could 
make out the Willow. 

“There’s Ron!” said Harry suddenly. 

A dark figure was sprinting across the lawn and its 
shout echoed through the still night air. 

“Get away from him — get away — Scabbers, come 
here — ” 

And then they saw two more figures materialize out of 
nowhere. Harry watched himself and Hermione 
chasing after Ron. Then he saw Ron dive. 

“Gotchcd Get off, you stinking cat — ” 

“There’s Sirius!” said Harry. The great shape of the 
dog had bounded out from the roots of the Willow. 
They saw him bowl Harry over, then seize Ron. ... 

“Looks even worse from here, doesn’t it?” said Harry, 
watching the dog pulling Ron into the roots. “Ouch — 
look, I just got walloped by the tree — and so did you 
— this is weird — ” 



Page | 451 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




The Whomping Willow was creaking and lashing out 
with its lower branches; they could see themselves 
darting here and there, trying to reach the trunk. And 
then the tree froze. 

“That was Crookshanks pressing the knot,” said 
Hermione. 

“And there we go ... ,” Harry muttered. “We’re in.” 

The moment they disappeared, the tree began to move 
again. Seconds later, they heard footsteps quite close 
by. Dumbledore, Macnair, Fudge, and the old 
Committee member were making their way up to the 
castle. 

“Right after we’d gone down into the passage!” said 
Hermione. “If only Dumbledore had come with us ...” 

“Macnair and Fudge would’ve come too,” said Harry 
bitterly. “I bet you anything Fudge would’ve told 
Macnair to murder Sirius on the spot. ...” 

They watched the four men climb the castle steps and 
disappear from view. For a few minutes the scene was 
deserted. Then — 

“Here comes Lupin!” said Harry as they saw another 
figure sprinting down the stone steps and haring 
toward the Willow. Harry looked up at the sky. Clouds 
were obscuring the moon completely. 

They watched Lupin seize a broken branch from the 
ground and prod the knot on the trunk. The tree 
stopped fighting, and Lupin, too, disappeared into the 
gap in its roots. 

“If he’d only grabbed the cloak,” said Harry. “It’s just 
lying there. ...” 

Page | 452 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




He turned to Hermione. 



“If I just dashed out now and grabbed it, Snape’d 
never be able to get it and — ” 

“Harry, we mustn’t be seen!” 

“How can you stand this?” he asked Hermione 
fiercely. “Just standing here and watching it happen?” 
He hesitated. “I’m going to grab the cloak!” 

“Harry, no!” 

Hermione seized the back of Harry’s robes not a 
moment too soon. Just then, they heard a burst of 
song. It was Hagrid, making his way up to the castle, 
singing at the top of his voice, and weaving slightly as 
he walked. A large bottle was swinging from his 
hands. 

“See?” Hermione whispered. “See what would have 
happened? We’ve got to keep out of sight! No, 
Buckbeak).” 

The hippogriff was making frantic attempts to get to 
Hagrid again; Harry seized his rope too, straining to 
hold Buckbeak back. They watched Hagrid meander 
tipsily up to the castle. He was gone. Buckbeak 
stopped fighting to get away. His head drooped sadly. 

Barely two minutes later, the castle doors flew open 
yet again, and Snape came charging out of them, 
running toward the Willow. 

Harry’s fists clenched as they watched Snape skid to 
a halt next to the tree, looking around. He grabbed 
the cloak and held it up. 



Page | 453 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Get your filthy hands off it,” Harry snarled under his 
breath. 

“Shh!” 

Snape seized the branch Lupin had used to freeze the 
tree, prodded the knot, and vanished from view as he 
put on the cloak. 

“So that’s it,” said Hermione quietly. “We’re all down 
there ... and now we’ve just got to wait until we come 
back up again. ...” 

She took the end of Buckbeak’s rope and tied it 
securely around the nearest tree, then sat down on 
the dry ground, arms around her knees. 

“Harry, there’s something I don’t understand. ... Why 
didn’t the dementors get Sirius? I remember them 
coming, and then I think I passed out . . . there were 
so many of them. ...” 

Harry sat down too. He explained what he’d seen; 
how, as the nearest dementor had lowered its mouth 
to Harry’s, a large silver something had come 
galloping across the lake and forced the dementors to 
retreat. 

Hermione ’s mouth was slightly open by the time 
Harry had finished. 

“But what was it?” 

“There’s only one thing it could have been, to make 
the dementors go,” said Harry. “A real Patronus. A 
powerful one.” 

“But who conjured it?” 



Page | 454 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry didn’t say anything. He was thinking back to 
the person he’d seen on the other bank of the lake. He 
knew who he thought it had been . . . but how could it 
have been? 

“Didn’t you see what they looked like?” said Hermione 
eagerly. “Was it one of the teachers?” 

“No,” said Harry. “He wasn’t a teacher.” 

“But it must have been a really powerful wizard, to 
drive all those dementors away. ... If the Patronus 
was shining so brightly, didn’t it light him up? 
Couldn’t you see — ?” 

“Yeah, I saw him,” said Harry slowly. “But ... maybe I 
imagined it. ... I wasn’t thinking straight. ... I passed 
out right afterward. ...” 

“ Who did you think it was?” 

“I think — ” Harry swallowed, knowing how strange 
this was going to sound. “I think it was my dad.” 

Harry glanced up at Hermione and saw that her 
mouth was fully open now. She was gazing at him 
with a mixture of alarm and pity. 

“Harry, your dad’s — well — dead,” she said quietly. 

“I know that,” said Harry quickly. 

“You think you saw his ghost?” 

“I don’t know ... no ... he looked solid. ...” 

“But then — ” 



Page | 455 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Maybe I was seeing things,” said Harry. “But ... from 
what I could see ... it looked like him. ... I’ve got 
photos of him. ...” 

Hermione was still looking at him as though worried 
about his sanity. 

“I know it sounds crazy,” said Harry flatly. He turned 
to look at Buckbeak, who was digging his beak into 
the ground, apparently searching for worms. But he 
wasn’t really watching Buckbeak. 

He was thinking about his father and about his 
father’s three oldest friends ... Moony, Wormtail, 
Padfoot, and Prongs. ... Had all four of them been out 
on the grounds tonight? Wormtail had reappeared 
this evening when everyone had thought he was dead. 
... Was it so impossible his father had done the same? 
Had he been seeing things across the lake? The figure 
had been too far away to see distinctly . . . yet he had 
felt sure, for a moment, before he’d lost 
consciousness. ... 

The leaves overhead rustled faintly in the breeze. The 
moon drifted in and out of sight behind the shifting 
clouds. Hermione sat with her face turned toward the 
Willow, waiting. 

And then, at last, after over an hour . . . 

“Here we come!” Hermione whispered. 

She and Harry got to their feet. Buckbeak raised his 
head. They saw Lupin, Pettigrew, and Ron clambering 
awkwardly out of the hole in the roots . . . followed by 
the unconscious Snape, drifting weirdly upward. Next 
came Harry, Hermione, and Black. They all began to 
walk toward the castle. 



Page | 456 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry’s heart was starting to beat very fast. He 
glanced up at the sky. Any moment now, that cloud 
was going to move aside and show the moon. ... 

“Harry,” Hermione muttered as though she knew 
exactly what he was thinking, “we’ve got to stay put. 
We mustn’t be seen. There’s nothing we can do. ...” 

“So we’re just going to let Pettigrew escape all over 
again. ...” said Harry quietly. 

“How do you expect to find a rat in the dark?” 
snapped Hermione. “There’s nothing we can do! We 
came back to help Sirius; we’re not supposed to be 
doing anything else!” 

“ All right'.” 

The moon slid out from behind its cloud. They saw 
the tiny figures across the grounds stop. Then they 
saw movement — 

“There goes Lupin,” Hermione whispered. “He’s 
transforming — ” 

“Hermione!” said Harry suddenly. “We’ve got to move!” 

“We mustn’t, I keep telling you — ” 

“Not to interfere! Lupin’s going to run into the forest, 
right at us!” 

Hermione gasped. 

“Quick!” she moaned, dashing to untie Buckbeak. 
“Quick! Where are we going to go? Where are we going 
to hide? The dementors will be coming any moment — 



Page | 457 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Back to Hagrid’s!” Harry said. “It’s empty now — 
come on!” 

They ran as fast as they could, Buckbeak cantering 
along behind them. They could hear the werewolf 
howling behind them. ... 

The cabin was in sight; Harry skidded to the door, 
wrenched it open, and Hermione and Buckbeak 
flashed past him; Harry threw himself in after them 
and bolted the door. Fang the boarhound barked 
loudly. 

“Shh, Fang, it’s us!” said Hermione, hurrying over and 
scratching his ears to quieten him. “That was really 
close!” she said to Harry. 

“Yeah ...” 

Harry was looking out of the window. It was much 
harder to see what was going on from here. Buckbeak 
seemed very happy to find himself back inside 
Hagrid’s house. He lay down in front of the fire, folded 
his wings contentedly, and seemed ready for a good 
nap. 

“I think I’d better go outside again, you know,” said 
Harry slowly. “I can’t see what’s going on — we won’t 
know when it’s time — ” 

Hermione looked up. Her expression was suspicious. 

“I’m not going to try and interfere,” said Harry 
quickly. “But if we don’t see what’s going on, how’re 
we going to know when it’s time to rescue Sirius?” 

“Well ... okay, then ... I’ll wait here with Buckbeak ... 
but Harry, be careful — there’s a werewolf out there 
— and the dementors — ” 

Page | 458 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry stepped outside again and edged around the 
cabin. He could hear yelping in the distance. That 
meant the dementors were closing in on Sirius. ... He 
and Hermione would be running to him any moment. 



Harry stared out toward the lake, his heart doing a 
kind of drumroll in his chest. ... Whoever had sent 
that Patronus would be appearing at any moment. ... 

For a fraction of a second he stood, irresolute, in front 
of Hagrid’s door. You must not be seen. But he didn’t 
want to be seen. He wanted to do the seeing. ... He 
had to know. . . . 

And there were the dementors. They were emerging 
out of the darkness from every direction, gliding 
around the edges of the lake. ... They were moving 
away from where Harry stood, to the opposite bank. 

... He wouldn’t have to get near them. ... 

Harry began to run. He had no thought in his head 
except his father. ... If it was him ... if it really was 
him ... he had to know, had to find out. ... 

The lake was coming nearer and nearer, but there 
was no sign of anybody. On the opposite bank, he 
could see tiny glimmers of silver — his own attempts 
at a Patronus — 

There was a bush at the very edge of the water. Harry 
threw himself behind it, peering desperately through 
the leaves. On the opposite bank, the glimmers of 
silver were suddenly extinguished. A terrified 
excitement shot through him — any moment now — 

“Come on!” he muttered, staring about. “Where are 
you? Dad, come on — ” 



Page | 459 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




But no one came. Harry raised his head to look at the 
circle of dementors across the lake. One of them was 
lowering its hood. It was time for the rescuer to 
appear — but no one was coming to help this time — 

And then it hit him — he understood. He hadn’t seen 
his father — he had seen himself — 

Harry flung himself out from behind the bush and 
pulled out his wand. 

“EXPECTO PATRONUM ” he yelled. 

And out of the end of his wand burst, not a shapeless 
cloud of mist, but a blinding, dazzling, silver animal. 
He screwed up his eyes, trying to see what it was. It 
looked like a horse. It was galloping silently away 
from him, across the black surface of the lake. He 
saw it lower its head and charge at the swarming 
dementors. ... Now it was galloping around and 
around the black shapes on the ground, and the 
dementors were falling back, scattering, retreating 
into the darkness. ... They were gone. 

The Patronus turned. It was cantering back toward 
Harry across the still surface of the water. It wasn’t a 
horse. It wasn’t a unicorn, either. It was a stag. It was 
shining brightly as the moon above ... it was coming 
back to him. ... 

It stopped on the bank. Its hooves made no mark on 
the soft ground as it stared at Harry with its large, 
silver eyes. Slowly, it bowed its antlered head. And 
Harry realized . . . 

“Prongs,” he whispered. 

But as his trembling fingertips stretched toward the 
creature, it vanished. 

Page | 460 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Harry stood there, hand still outstretched. Then, with 
a great leap of his heart, he heard hooves behind him 
— he whirled around and saw Hermione dashing 
toward him, dragging Buckbeak behind her. 

“What did you do?” she said fiercely. “You said you 
were only going to keep a lookout!” 

“I just saved all our lives ... ,” said Harry. “Get behind 
here — behind this bush — I’ll explain.” 

Hermione listened to what had just happened with 
her mouth open yet again. 

“Did anyone see you?” 

“Yes, haven’t you been listening? I saw me but I 
thought I was my dad! It’s okay!” 

“Harry, I can’t believe it. ... You conjured up a 
Patronus that drove away all those dementors! That’s 
very, very advanced magic. ...” 

“I knew I could do it this time,” said Harry, “because 
I’d already done it. ... Does that make sense?” 

“I don’t know — Harry, look at Snape!” 

Together they peered around the bush at the other 
bank. Snape had regained consciousness. He was 
conjuring stretchers and lifting the limp forms of 
Harry, Hermione, and Black onto them. A fourth 
stretcher, no doubt bearing Ron, was already floating 
at his side. Then, wand held out in front of him, he 
moved them away toward the castle. 

“Right, it’s nearly time,” said Hermione tensely, 
looking at her watch. “We’ve got about forty-five 
minutes until Dumbledore locks the door to the 

Page | 461 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




hospital wing. We’ve got to rescue Sirius and get back 
into the ward before anybody realizes we’re missing. 



They waited, watching the moving clouds reflected in 
the lake, while the bush next to them whispered in 
the breeze. Buckbeak, bored, was ferreting for worms 
again. 

“D’you reckon he’s up there yet?” said Harry, 
checking his watch. He looked up at the castle and 
began counting the windows to the right of the West 
Tower. 

“Look!” Hermione whispered. “Who’s that? Someone’s 
coming back out of the castle!” 

Harry stared through the darkness. The man was 
hurrying across the grounds, toward one of the 
entrances. Something shiny glinted in his belt. 

“Macnair!” said Harry. “The executioner! He’s gone to 
get the dementors! This is it, Hermione — ” 

Hermione put her hands on Buckbeak’s back and 
Harry gave her a leg up. Then he placed his foot on 
one of the lower branches of the bush and climbed up 
in front of her. He pulled Buckbeak’s rope back over 
his neck and tied it to the other side of his collar like 
reins. 

“Ready?” he whispered to Hermione. “You’d better 
hold on to me — ” 

He nudged Buckbeak’s sides with his heels. 

Buckbeak soared straight into the dark air. Harry 
gripped his flanks with his knees, feeling the great 
wings rising powerfully beneath them. Hermione was 

Page | 462 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




holding Harry very tight around the waist; he could 
hear her muttering, “Oh, no — I don’t like this — oh, I 
really don’t like this — ” 

Harry urged Buckbeak forward. They were gliding 
quietly toward the upper floors of the castle. ... Harry 
pulled hard on the left-hand side of the rope, and 
Buckbeak turned. Harry was trying to count the 
windows flashing past — 

“Whoa!” he said, pulling backward as hard as he 
could. 

Buckbeak slowed down and they found themselves at 
a stop, unless you counted the fact that they kept 
rising up and down several feet as the hippogriff beat 
his wings to remain airborne. 

“He’s there!” Harry said, spotting Sirius as they rose 
up beside the window. He reached out, and as 
Buckbeak’s wings fell, was able to tap sharply on the 
glass. 

Black looked up. Harry saw his jaw drop. He leapt 
from his chair, hurried to the window and tried to 
open it, but it was locked. 

“Stand back!” Hermione called to him, and she took 
out her wand, still gripping the back of Harry’s robes 
with her left hand. 

“Alohomoral” 

The window sprang open. 

“How — how — ?” said Black weakly, staring at the 
hippogriff. 



Page | 463 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Get on — there’s not much time,” said Harry, 
gripping Buckbeak firmly on either side of his sleek 
neck to hold him steady. “You’ve got to get out of here 

— the dementors are coming — Macnair’s gone to get 
them.” 

Black placed a hand on either side of the window 
frame and heaved his head and shoulders out of it. It 
was very lucky he was so thin. In seconds, he had 
managed to fling one leg over Buckbeak’s back and 
pull himself onto the hippogriff behind Hermione. 

“Okay, Buckbeak, up!” said Harry, shaking the rope. 
“Up to the tower — come on!” 

The hippogriff gave one sweep of its mighty wings and 
they were soaring upward again, high as the top of 
the West Tower. Buckbeak landed with a clatter on 
the battlements, and Harry and Hermione slid off him 
at once. 

“Sirius, you’d better go, quick,” Harry panted. “They’ll 
reach Flitwick’s office any moment, they’ll find out 
you’re gone.” 

Buckbeak pawed the ground, tossing his sharp head. 

“What happened to the other boy? Ron?” croaked 
Sirius. 

“He’s going to be okay. He’s still out of it, but Madam 
Pomfrey says shell be able to make him better. Quick 

- go 



But Black was still staring down at Harry. 

“How can I ever thank — ” 

“GO!” Harry and Hermione shouted together. 

Page | 464 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Black wheeled Buckbeak around, facing the open sky. 

“Well see each other again,” he said. “You are — truly 
your father’s son, Harry. ...” 

He squeezed Buckbeak’s sides with his heels. Harry 
and Hermione jumped back as the enormous wings 
rose once more. ... The hippogriff took off into the air. 

. . . He and his rider became smaller and smaller as 
Harry gazed after them ... then a cloud drifted across 
the moon. ... They were gone. 



Page | 465 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 





OWL POST AGAIN 



“Harry!” 

Hermione was tugging at his sleeve, staring at her 
watch. “We’ve got exactly ten minutes to get back 
down to the hospital wing without anybody seeing us 
— before Dumbledore locks the door — ” 

“Okay,” said Harry, wrenching his gaze from the sky, 
“let’s go. ...” 

They slipped through the doorway behind them and 
down a tightly spiraling stone staircase. As they 
reached the bottom of it, they heard voices. They 
flattened themselves against the wall and listened. It 
sounded like Fudge and Snape. They were walking 
quickly along the corridor at the foot of the staircase. 

"... only hope Dumbledore ’s not going to make 
difficulties,” Snape was saying. “The Kiss will be 
performed immediately?” 



Page | 466 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 



“As soon as Macnair returns with the dementors. This 
whole Black affair has been highly embarrassing. I 
can’t tell you how much I’m looking forward to 
informing the Daily Prophet that we’ve got him at last. 
...I daresay they’ll want to interview you, Snape ... 
and once young Harry’s back in his right mind, I 
expect he’ll want to tell the Prophet exactly how you 
saved him. ...” 

Harry clenched his teeth. He caught a glimpse of 
Snape’s smirk as he and Fudge passed Harry and 
Hermione’s hiding place. Their footsteps died away. 
Harry and Hermione waited a few moments to make 
sure they’d really gone, then started to run in the 
opposite direction. Down one staircase, then another, 
along a new corridor — then they heard a cackling 
ahead. 

“Peeves\” Harry muttered, grabbing Hermione’s wrist. 
“In here!” 

They tore into a deserted classroom to their left just 
in time. Peeves seemed to be bouncing along the 
corridor in boisterous good spirits, laughing his head 
off. 

“Oh, he’s horrible,” whispered Hermione, her ear to 
the door. “I bet he’s all excited because the dementors 
are going to finish off Sirius. ...” She checked her 
watch. “Three minutes, Harry!” 

They waited until Peeves ’s gloating voice had faded 
into the distance, then slid back out of the room and 
broke into a run again. 

“Hermione — what’ll happen — if we don’t get back 
inside — before Dumbledore locks the door?” Harry 
panted. 



Page | 467 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“I don’t want to think about it!” Hermione moaned, 
checking her watch again. “One minute!” 

They had reached the end of the corridor with the 
hospital wing entrance. “Okay — I can hear 
Dumbledore,” said Hermione tensely. “Come on, 
Harry!” 

They crept along the corridor. The door opened. 
Dumbledore ’s back appeared. 

“I am going to lock you in,” they heard him saying. “It 
is five minutes to midnight. Miss Granger, three turns 
should do it. Good luck.” 

Dumbledore backed out of the room, closed the door, 
and took out his wand to magically lock it. Panicking, 
Harry and Hermione ran forward. Dumbledore looked 
up, and a wide smile appeared under the long silver 
mustache. “Well?” he said quietly. 

“We did it!” said Harry breathlessly. “Sirius has gone, 
on Buckbeak. ...” 

Dumbledore beamed at them. 

“Well done. I think — ” He listened intently for any 
sound within the hospital wing. “Yes, I think you’ve 
gone too — get inside — I’ll lock you in — ” 

Harry and Hermione slipped back inside the 
dormitory. It was empty except for Ron, who was still 
lying motionless in the end bed. As the lock clicked 
behind them, Harry and Hermione crept back to their 
own beds, Hermione tucking the Time-Turner back 
under her robes. A moment later, Madam Pomfrey 
came striding back out of her office. 



Page | 468 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Did I hear the headmaster leaving? Am I allowed to 
look after my patients now?” 

She was in a very bad mood. Harry and Hermione 
thought it best to accept their chocolate quietly. 
Madam Pomfrey stood over them, making sure they 
ate it. But Harry could hardly swallow. He and 
Hermione were waiting, listening, their nerves 
jangling. ... And then, as they both took a fourth piece 
of chocolate from Madam Pomfrey, they heard a 
distant roar of fury echoing from somewhere above 
them. ... 

“What was that?” said Madam Pomfrey in alarm. 

Now they could hear angry voices, growing louder and 
louder. Madam Pomfrey was staring at the door. 

“Really — they’ll wake everybody up! What do they 
think they’re doing?” 

Harry was trying to hear what the voices were saying. 
They were drawing nearer — 

“He must have Disapparated, Severus. We should 
have left somebody in the room with him. When this 
gets out — ” 

“HE DIDNT DISAPPARATE!” Snape roared, now very 
close at hand. “YOU CANT APPARATE OR 
DISAPPARATE INSIDE THIS CASTLE! THIS — HAS — 
SOMETHING — TO — DO — WITH — POTTER!” 

“Severus — be reasonable — Harry has been locked 
up-” 

BAM. 

The door of the hospital wing burst open. 

Page | 469 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Fudge, Snape, and Dumbledore came striding into the 
ward. Dumbledore alone looked calm. Indeed, he 
looked as though he was quite enjoying himself. 

Fudge appeared angry. But Snape was beside himself. 

“OUT WITH IT, POTTER!” he bellowed. “WHAT DID 
YOU DO?” 

“Professor Snape!” shrieked Madam Pomfrey. “Control 
yourself!” 

“See here, Snape, be reasonable,” said Fudge. “This 
door’s been locked, we just saw — ” 

“THEY HELPED HIM ESCAPE, I KNOW IT!” Snape 
howled, pointing at Harry and Hermione. His face was 
twisted; spit was flying from his mouth. 

“Calm down, man!” Fudge barked. “You’re talking 
nonsense!” 

“YOU DONT KNOW POTTER!” shrieked Snape. “HE 
DID IT, I KNOW HE DID IT — ” 

“That will do, Severus,” said Dumbledore quietly. 
“Think about what you are saying. This door has been 
locked since I left the ward ten minutes ago. Madam 
Pomfrey, have these students left their beds?” 

“Of course not!” said Madam Pomfrey, bristling. “I 
would have heard them!” 

“Well, there you have it, Severus,” said Dumbledore 
calmly. “Unless you are suggesting that Harry and 
Hermione are able to be in two places at once, I’m 
afraid I don’t see any point in troubling them further.” 

Snape stood there, seething, staring from Fudge, who 
looked thoroughly shocked at his behavior, to 

Page | 470 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore, whose eyes were twinkling behind his 
glasses. Snape whirled about, robes swishing behind 
him, and stormed out of the ward. 

“Fellow seems quite unbalanced,” said Fudge, staring 
after him. “I’d watch out for him if I were you, 
Dumbledore.” 

“Oh, he’s not unbalanced,” said Dumbledore quietly. 
“He’s just suffered a severe disappointment.” 

“He’s not the only one!” puffed Fudge. “The Daily 
Prophet’s going to have a field day! We had Black 
cornered and he slipped through our fingers yet 
again! All it needs now is for the story of that 
hippogriff’s escape to get out, and I’ll be a 
laughingstock! Well ... I’d better go and notify the 
Ministry. ...” 

“And the dementors?” said Dumbledore. “They’ll be 
removed from the school, I trust?” 

“Oh yes, they’ll have to go,” said Fudge, running his 
fingers distractedly through his hair. “Never dreamed 
they’d attempt to administer the Kiss on an innocent 
boy. ... Completely out of control ... no, I’ll have them 
packed off back to Azkaban tonight. ... Perhaps we 
should think about dragons at the school entrance. 



“Hagrid would like that,” said Dumbledore, smiling at 
Harry and Hermione. As he and Fudge left the 
dormitory, Madam Pomfrey hurried to the door and 
locked it again. Muttering angrily to herself, she 
headed back to her office. 

There was a low moan from the other end of the ward. 
Ron had woken up. They could see him sitting up, 
rubbing his head, looking around. 

Page | 471 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“What — what happened?” he groaned. “Harry? Why 
are we in here? Where’s Sirius? Where’s Lupin? 

What’s going on?” 

Harry and Hermione looked at each other. 

“You explain,” said Harry, helping himself to some 
more chocolate. 

When Harry, Ron, and Hermione left the hospital 
wing at noon the next day, it was to find an almost 
deserted castle. The sweltering heat and the end of 
the exams meant that everyone was taking full 
advantage of another Hogsmeade visit. Neither Ron 
nor Hermione felt like going, however, so they and 
Harry wandered onto the grounds, still talking about 
the extraordinary events of the previous night and 
wondering where Sirius and Buckbeak were now. 
Sitting near the lake, watching the giant squid waving 
its tentacles lazily above the water, Harry lost the 
thread of the conversation as he looked across to the 
opposite bank. The stag had galloped toward him 
from there just last night. ... 

A shadow fell across them and they looked up to see a 
very bleary-eyed Hagrid, mopping his sweaty face with 
one of his tablecloth-sized handkerchiefs and 
beaming down at them. 

“Know I shouldn’ feel happy, after wha’ happened las’ 
night,” he said. “I mean, Black escapin’ again, an’ 
everythin’ — but guess what?” 

“What?” they said, pretending to look curious. 

“Beaky! He escaped! He’s free! Bin celebratin’ all 
night!” 



Page | 472 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“That’s wonderful!” said Hermione, giving Ron a 
reproving look because he looked as though he was 
close to laughing. 

“Yeah ... can’t’ve tied him up properly,” said Hagrid, 
gazing happily out over the grounds. “I was worried 
this mornin’, mind ... thought he mighta met 
Professor Lupin on the grounds, but Lupin says he 
never ate anythin’ las’ night. ...” 

“What?” said Harry quickly. 

“Blimey, haven’ yeh heard?” said Hagrid, his smile 
fading a little. He lowered his voice, even though there 
was nobody in sight. “Er — Snape told all the 
Slytherins this mornin’. ... Thought everyone ’d know 
by now ... Professor Lupin’s a werewolf, see. An’ he 
was loose on the grounds las’ night. ... He’s packin’ 
now, o’ course.” 

“He’s packing?” said Harry, alarmed. “Why?” 

“Leavin’, isn’ he?” said Hagrid, looking surprised that 
Harry had to ask. “Resigned firs’ thing this mornin’. 
Says he can’t risk it happenin’ again.” 

Harry scrambled to his feet. 

“I’m going to see him,” he said to Ron and Hermione. 
“But if he’s resigned — ” 

“ — doesn’t sound like there’s anything we can do — ” 

“I don’t care. I still want to see him. I’ll meet you back 
here.” 

Lupin’s office door was open. He had already packed 
most of his things. The grindylow’s empty tank stood 

Page | 473 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




next to his battered old suitcase, which was open and 
nearly full. Lupin was bending over something on his 
desk and looked up only when Harry knocked on the 
door. 

“I saw you coming,” said Lupin, smiling. He pointed to 
the parchment he had been poring over. It was the 
Marauder’s Map. 

“I just saw Hagrid,” said Harry. “And he said you’d 
resigned. It’s not true, is it?” 

“I’m afraid it is,” said Lupin. He started opening his 
desk drawers and taking out the contents. 

“Why?” said Harry. “The Ministry of Magic don’t think 
you were helping Sirius, do they?” 

Lupin crossed to the door and closed it behind Harry. 

“No. Professor Dumbledore managed to convince 
Fudge that I was trying to save your lives.” He sighed. 
“That was the final straw for Severus. I think the loss 
of the Order of Merlin hit him hard. So he — er — 
accidentally let slip that I am a werewolf this morning 
at breakfast.” 

“You’re not leaving just because of that!” said Harry. 
Lupin smiled wryly. 

“This time tomorrow, the owls will start arriving from 
parents. ... They will not want a werewolf teaching 
their children, Harry. And after last night, I see their 
point. I could have bitten any of you. ... That must 
never happen again.” 

“You’re the best Defense Against the Dark Arts 
teacher we’ve ever had!” said Harry. “Don’t go!” 

Page | 474 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Lupin shook his head and didn’t speak. He carried on 
emptying his drawers. Then, while Harry was trying 
to think of a good argument to make him stay, Lupin 
said, “From what the headmaster told me this 
morning, you saved a lot of lives last night, Harry. If 
I’m proud of anything I’ve done this year, it’s how 
much you’ve learned. ... Tell me about your 
Patronus.” 

“How d’you know about that?” said Harry, distracted. 

“What else could have driven the dementors back?” 

Harry told Lupin what had happened. When he’d 
finished, Lupin was smiling again. 

“Yes, your father was always a stag when he 
transformed,” he said. “You guessed right ... that’s 
why we called him Prongs.” 

Lupin threw his last few books into his case, closed 
the desk drawers, and turned to look at Harry. 

“Here — I brought this from the Shrieking Shack last 
night,” he said, handing Harry back the Invisibility 
Cloak. “And ...” He hesitated, then held out the 
Marauder’s Map too. “I am no longer your teacher, so 
I don’t feel guilty about giving you back this as well. 
It’s no use to me, and I daresay you, Ron, and 
Hermione will find uses for it.” 

Harry took the map and grinned. 

“You told me Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot, and Prongs 
would’ve wanted to lure me out of school ... you said 
they’d have thought it was funny.” 

“And so we would have,” said Lupin, now reaching 
down to close his case. “I have no hesitation in saying 

Page | 475 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




that James would have been highly disappointed if 
his son had never found any of the secret passages 
out of the castle.” 

There was a knock on the door. Harry hastily stuffed 
the Marauder’s Map and the Invisibility Cloak into his 
pocket. 

It was Professor Dumbledore. He didn’t look surprised 
to see Harry there. 

“Your carriage is at the gates, Remus,” he said. 

“Thank you, Headmaster.” 

Lupin picked up his old suitcase and the empty 
grindylow tank. 

“Well — good-bye, Harry,” he said, smiling. “It has 
been a real pleasure teaching you. I feel sure we’ll 
meet again sometime. Headmaster, there is no need 
to see me to the gates, I can manage. ...” 

Harry had the impression that Lupin wanted to leave 
as quickly as possible. 

“Good-bye, then, Remus,” said Dumbledore soberly. 
Lupin shifted the grindylow tank slightly so that he 
and Dumbledore could shake hands. Then, with a 
final nod to Harry and a swift smile, Lupin left the 
office. 

Harry sat down in his vacated chair, staring glumly at 
the floor. He heard the door close and looked up. 
Dumbledore was still there. 

“Why so miserable, Harry?” he said quietly. “You 
should be very proud of yourself after last night.” 



Page | 476 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“It didn’t make any difference,” said Harry bitterly. 
“Pettigrew got away.” 

“Didn’t make any difference?” said Dumbledore 
quietly. “It made all the difference in the world, Harry. 
You helped uncover the truth. You saved an innocent 
man from a terrible fate.” 

Terrible. Something stirred in Harry’s memory. 

Greater and more terrible than ever before ... Professor 
Trelawney’s prediction! 

“Professor Dumbledore — yesterday, when I was 
having my Divination exam, Professor Trelawney went 
very — very strange.” 

“Indeed?” said Dumbledore. “Er — stranger than 
usual, you mean?” 

“Yes . . . her voice went all deep and her eyes rolled 
and she said ... she said Voldemort’s servant was 
going to set out to return to him before midnight. ... 
She said the servant would help him come back to 
power.” Harry stared up at Dumbledore. “And then 
she sort of became normal again, and she couldn’t 
remember anything she’d said. Was it — was she 
making a real prediction?” 

Dumbledore looked mildly impressed. 

“Do you know, Harry, I think she might have been,” 
he said thoughtfully. “Who’d have thought it? That 
brings her total of real predictions up to two. I should 
offer her a pay raise. ...” 

“But — ” Harry looked at him, aghast. How could 
Dumbledore take this so calmly? 



Page | 477 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“But — I stopped Sirius and Professor Lupin from 
killing Pettigrew! That makes it my fault if Voldemort 
comes back!” 



“It does not,” said Dumbledore quietly. “Hasn’t your 
experience with the Time-Turner taught you anything, 
Harry? The consequences of our actions are always so 
complicated, so diverse, that predicting the future is a 
very difficult business indeed. ... Professor Trelawney, 
bless her, is living proof of that. ... You did a very 
noble thing, in saving Pettigrew’s life.” 

“But if he helps Voldemort back to power — !” 

“Pettigrew owes his life to you. You have sent 
Voldemort a deputy who is in your debt. ... When one 
wizard saves another wizard’s life, it creates a certain 
bond between them ... and I’m much mistaken if 
Voldemort wants his servant in the debt of Harry 
Potter.” 

“I don’t want a connection with Pettigrew!” said Harry. 
“He betrayed my parents!” 

“This is magic at its deepest, its most impenetrable, 
Harry. But trust me ... the time may come when you 
will be very glad you saved Pettigrew’s life.” 

Harry couldn’t imagine when that would be. 
Dumbledore looked as though he knew what Harry 
was thinking. 

“I knew your father very well, both at Hogwarts and 
later, Harry,” he said gently. “He would have saved 
Pettigrew too, I am sure of it.” 

Harry looked up at him. Dumbledore wouldn’t laugh 
— he could tell Dumbledore . . . 

Page | 478 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“I thought it was my dad who’d conjured my 
Patronus. I mean, when I saw myself across the lake 
...I thought I was seeing him.” 

“An easy mistake to make,” said Dumbledore softly. “I 
expect you 11 tire of hearing it, but you do look 
extraordinarily like James. Except for the eyes ... you 
have your mother’s eyes.” 

Harry shook his head. 

“It was stupid, thinking it was him,” he muttered. “I 
mean, I knew he was dead.” 

“You think the dead we loved ever truly leave us? You 
think that we don’t recall them more clearly than ever 
in times of great trouble? Your father is alive in you, 
Harry, and shows himself most plainly when you have 
need of him. How else could you produce that 
particular Patronus? Prongs rode again last night.” 

It took a moment for Harry to realize what 
Dumbledore had said. 

“Last night Sirius told me all about how they became 
Animagi,” said Dumbledore, smiling. “An 
extraordinary achievement — not least, keeping it 
quiet from me. And then I remembered the most 
unusual form your Patronus took, when it charged 
Mr. Malfoy down at your Quidditch match against 
Ravenclaw. You know, Harry, in a way, you did see 
your father last night. ... You found him inside 
yourself.” 

And Dumbledore left the office, leaving Harry to his 
very confused thoughts. 



Page | 479 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Nobody at Hogwarts now knew the truth of what had 
happened the night that Sirius, Buckbeak, and 
Pettigrew had vanished except Harry, Ron, Hermione, 
and Professor Dumbledore. As the end of term 
approached, Harry heard many different theories 
about what had really happened, but none of them 
came close to the truth. 

Malfoy was furious about Buckbeak. He was 
convinced that Hagrid had found a way of smuggling 
the hippogriff to safety, and seemed outraged that he 
and his father had been outwitted by a gamekeeper. 
Percy Weasley, meanwhile, had much to say on the 
subject of Sirius’s escape. 

“If I manage to get into the Ministry, I’ll have a lot of 
proposals to make about Magical Law Enforcement!” 
he told the only person who would listen — his 
girlfriend, Penelope. 

Though the weather was perfect, though the 
atmosphere was so cheerful, though he knew they 
had achieved the near impossible in helping Sirius to 
freedom, Harry had never approached the end of a 
school year in worse spirits. 

He certainly wasn’t the only one who was sorry to see 
Professor Lupin go. The whole of Harry’s Defense 
Against the Dark Arts class was miserable about his 
resignation. 

“Wonder what they’ll give us next year?” said Seamus 
Finnigan gloomily. 

“Maybe a vampire,” suggested Dean Thomas 
hopefully. 

It wasn’t only Professor Lupin’s departure that was 
weighing on Harry’s mind. He couldn’t help thinking a 

Page | 480 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




lot about Professor Trelawney’s prediction. He kept 
wondering where Pettigrew was now, whether he had 
sought sanctuary with Voldemort yet. But the thing 
that was lowering Harry’s spirits most of all was the 
prospect of returning to the Dursleys. For maybe half 
an hour, a glorious half hour, he had believed he 
would be living with Sirius from now on . . . his 
parents’ best friend. ... It would have been the next 
best thing to having his own father back. And while 
no news of Sirius was definitely good news, because it 
meant he had successfully gone into hiding, Harry 
couldn’t help feeling miserable when he thought of 
the home he might have had, and the fact that it was 
now impossible. 

The exam results came out on the last day of term. 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione had passed every subject. 
Harry was amazed that he had got through Potions. 
He had a shrewd suspicion that Dumbledore might 
have stepped in to stop Snape failing him on purpose. 
Snape’s behavior toward Harry over the past week 
had been quite alarming. Harry wouldn’t have 
thought it possible that Snape’s dislike for him could 
increase, but it certainly had. A muscle twitched 
unpleasantly at the corner of Snape’s thin mouth 
every time he looked at Harry, and he was constantly 
flexing his fingers, as though itching to place them 
around Harry’s throat. 

Percy had got his top-grade N.E.W.T.s; Fred and 
George had scraped a handful of O.W.L.s each. 
Gryffindor House, meanwhile, largely thanks to their 
spectacular performance in the Quidditch Cup, had 
won the House championship for the third year 
running. This meant that the end of term feast took 
place amid decorations of scarlet and gold, and that 
the Gryffindor table was the noisiest of the lot, as 
everybody celebrated. Even Harry managed to forget 



Page | 481 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




about the journey back to the Dursleys the next day 
as he ate, drank, talked, and laughed with the rest. 



As the Hogwarts Express pulled out of the station the 
next morning, Hermione gave Harry and Ron some 
surprising news. 

“I went to see Professor McGonagall this morning, just 
before breakfast. I’ve decided to drop Muggle Studies.” 

“But you passed your exam with three hundred and 
twenty percent!” said Ron. 

“I know,” sighed Hermione, “but I can’t stand another 
year like this one. That Time-Turner, it was driving 
me mad. I’ve handed it in. Without Muggle Studies 
and Divination, I’ll be able to have a normal schedule 
again.” 

“I still can’t believe you didn’t tell us about it,” said 
Ron grumpily. “We’re supposed to be your friends.” 

“I promised I wouldn’t tell anyone,” said Hermione 
severely. She looked around at Harry, who was 
watching Hogwarts disappear from view behind a 
mountain. Two whole months before he’d see it again. 



“Oh, cheer up, Harry!” said Hermione sadly. 

“I’m okay,” said Harry quickly. “Just thinking about 
the holidays.” 

“Yeah, I’ve been thinking about them too,” said Ron. 
“Harry, you’ve got to come and stay with us. I’ll fix it 
up with Mum and Dad, then I’ll call you. I know how 
to use a fellytone now — ” 

Page | 482 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“A telephone, Ron,” said Hermione. “Honestly, you 
should take Muggle Studies next year. ...” 

Ron ignored her. 

“It’s the Quidditch World Cup this summer! How 
about it, Harry? Come and stay, and we’ll go and see 
it! Dad can usually get tickets from work.” 

This proposal had the effect of cheering Harry up a 
great deal. 

“Yeah ... I bet the Dursleys’d be pleased to let me 
come ... especially after what I did to Aunt Marge. ...” 

Feeling considerably more cheerful, Harry joined Ron 
and Hermione in several games of Exploding Snap, 
and when the witch with the tea cart arrived, he 
bought himself a very large lunch, though nothing 
with chocolate in it. 

But it was late in the afternoon before the thing that 
made him truly happy turned up. ... 

“Harry,” said Hermione suddenly, peering over his 
shoulder. “What’s that thing outside your window?” 

Harry turned to look outside. Something very small 
and gray was bobbing in and out of sight beyond the 
glass. He stood up for a better look and saw that it 
was a tiny owl, carrying a letter that was much too 
big for it. The owl was so small, in fact, that it kept 
tumbling over in the air, buffeted this way and that in 
the train’s slipstream. Harry quickly pulled down the 
window, stretched out his arm, and caught it. It felt 
like a very fluffy Snitch. He brought it carefully inside. 
The owl dropped its letter onto Harry’s seat and began 
zooming around their compartment, apparently very 
pleased with itself for accomplishing its task. Hedwig 
Page | 483 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




clicked her beak with a sort of dignified disapproval. 
Crookshanks sat up in his seat, following the owl with 
his great yellow eyes. Ron, noticing this, snatched the 
owl safely out of harm’s way. 

Harry picked up the letter. It was addressed to him. 

He ripped open the letter, and shouted, “It’s from 
Sirius!” 

“What?” said Ron and Hermione excitedly. “Read it 
aloud!” 

Dear Harry, 

I hope this finds you before you reach your aunt and 
uncle. I don’t know whether they’re used to owl post 

Buckbeak and I are in hiding. I won’t tell you where, in 
case this owl falls into the wrong hands. I have some 
doubt about his reliability, but he is the best I could 
find, and he did seem eager for the job. 

I believe the dementors are still searching for me, but 
they haven’t a hope of finding me here. I am planning 
to allow some Muggles to glimpse me soon, a long way 
from Hogwarts, so that the security on the castle will 
be lifted. 

There is something I never got around to telling you 
during our brief meeting. It was I who sent you the 
Firebolt — 

“Ha!” said Hermione triumphantly. “See! I told you it 
was from him!” 

“Yes, but he hadn’t jinxed it, had he?” said Ron. 
“Ouch!” The tiny owl, now hooting happily in his 
hand, had nibbled one of his fingers in what it 
seemed to think was an affectionate way. 

Page | 484 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




Crookshanks took the order to the Owl Office for me. I 
used your name but told them to take the gold from my 
own Gringotts vault. Please consider it as thirteen 
birthdays’ worth of presents from your godfather. 

I would also like to apologize for the fright I think I 
gave you that night last year when you left your 
uncle’s house. I had only hoped to get a glimpse of you 
before starting my journey north, but I think the sight 
of me alarmed you. 

I am enclosing something else for you, which I think 
will make your next year at Hogwarts more enjoyable. 

If ever you need me, send word. Your owl will find me. 

I’ll write again soon. 

Sirius 

Harry looked eagerly inside the envelope. There was 
another piece of parchment in there. He read it 
through quickly and felt suddenly as warm and 
contented as though he’d swallowed a bottle of hot 
butterbeer in one gulp. 

I, Sirius Black, Harry Potter’s godfather, hereby give 
him permission to visit Hogsmeade on weekends. 

“That’ll be good enough for Dumbledore!” said Harry 
happily. He looked back at Sirius’s letter. 

“Hang on, there’s a P.S. ...” 

I thought your friend Ron might like to keep this owl, 
as it’s my fault he no longer has a rat. 

Ron’s eyes widened. The minute owl was still hooting 
excitedly. 

Page | 485 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Keep him?” he said uncertainly. He looked closely at 
the owl for a moment; then, to Harry’s and 
Hermione’s great surprise, he held him out for 
Crookshanks to sniff. 

“What do’you reckon?” Ron asked the cat. “Definitely 
an owl?” 

Crookshanks purred. 

“That’s good enough for me,” said Ron happily. “He’s 
mine.” 

Harry read and reread the letter from Sirius all the 
way back into King’s Cross station. It was still 
clutched tightly in his hand as he, Ron, and 
Hermione stepped back through the barrier of 
platform nine and three-quarters. Harry spotted 
Uncle Vernon at once. He was standing a good 
distance from Mr. and Mrs. Weasley, eyeing them 
suspiciously, and when Mrs. Weasley hugged Harry in 
greeting, his worst suspicions about them seemed 
confirmed. 

“I’ll call about the World Cup!” Ron yelled after Harry 
as Harry bid him and Hermione good-bye, then 
wheeled the trolley bearing his trunk and Hedwig’s 
cage toward Uncle Vernon, who greeted him in his 
usual fashion. 

“What’s that?” he snarled, staring at the envelope 
Harry was still clutching in his hand. “If it’s another 
form for me to sign, you’ve got another — ” 

“It’s not,” said Harry cheerfully. “It’s a letter from my 
godfather.” 

“Godfather?” sputtered Uncle Vernon. “You haven’t 
got a godfather!” 

Page | 486 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes, I have,” said Harry brightly. “He was my mum 
and dad’s best friend. He’s a convicted murderer, but 
he’s broken out of wizard prison and he’s on the run. 
He likes to keep in touch with me, though ... keep up 
with my news ... check if I’m happy. ...” 

And, grinning broadly at the look of horror on Uncle 
Vernon’s face, Harry set off toward the station exit, 
Hedwig rattling along in front of him, for what looked 
like a much better summer than the last. 



Page | 487 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban - J.K. Rowling 




