

leisure and riches were frightening, “but Dobby beat 
him down, miss. ... Dobby likes freedom, miss, but he 
isn’t wanting too much, miss, he likes work better.” 

“And how much is Professor Dumbledore paying you, 
Winky?” Hermione asked kindly. 

If she had thought this would cheer up Winky, she 
was wildly mistaken. Winky did stop crying, but when 
she sat up she was glaring at Hermione through her 
massive brown eyes, her whole face sopping wet and 
suddenly furious. 

“Winky is a disgraced elf, but Winky is not yet getting 
paid!” she squeaked. “Winky is not sunk so low as 
that! Winky is properly ashamed of being freed!” 

“Ashamed?” said Hermione blankly. “But — Winky, 
come on! It’s Mr. Crouch who should be ashamed, not 
you! You didn’t do anything wrong, he was really 
horrible to you — ” 

But at these words, Winky clapped her hands over 
the holes in her hat, flattening her ears so that she 
couldn’t hear a word, and screeched, “You is not 
insulting my master, miss! You is not insulting Mr. 
Crouch! Mr. Crouch is a good wizard, miss! Mr. 
Crouch is right to sack bad Winky!” 

“Winky is having trouble adjusting, Harry Potter,” 
squeaked Dobby confidentially. “Winky forgets she is 
not bound to Mr. Crouch anymore; she is allowed to 
speak her mind now, but she won’t do it.” 

“Can’t house-elves speak their minds about their 
masters, then?” Harry asked. 

“Oh no, sir, no,” said Dobby, looking suddenly 
serious. “ Tis part of the house-elf’s enslavement, sir. 

Page | 419 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




We keeps their secrets and our silence, sir. We 
upholds the family’s honor, and we never speaks ill of 
them — though Professor Dumbledore told Dobby he 
does not insist upon this. Professor Dumbledore said 
we is free to — to — ” 

Dobby looked suddenly nervous and beckoned Harry 
closer. Harry bent forward. Dobby whispered, “He 
said we is free to call him a — a barmy old codger if 
we likes, sir!” 

Dobby gave a frightened sort of giggle. 

“But Dobby is not wanting to, Harry Potter,” he said, 
talking normally again, and shaking his head so that 
his ears flapped. “Dobby likes Professor Dumbledore 
very much, sir, and is proud to keep his secrets and 
our silence for him.” 

“But you can say what you like about the Malfoys 
now?” Harry asked him, grinning. 

A slightly fearful look came into Dobby’s immense 
eyes. 

“Dobby — Dobby could,” he said doubtfully. He 
squared his small shoulders. “Dobby could tell Harry 
Potter that his old masters were — were — bad Dark 
wizards'.” 

Dobby stood for a moment, quivering all over, horror- 
struck by his own daring — then he rushed over to 
the nearest table and began banging his head on it 
very hard, squealing, “ Bad Dobby ! Bad Dobby\” 

Harry seized Dobby by the back of his tie and pulled 
him away from the table. 



Page | 420 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Thank you, Harry Potter, thank you,” said Dobby 
breathlessly, rubbing his head. 

“You just need a bit of practice,” Harry said. 

“Practice!” squealed Winky furiously. “You is ought to 
be ashamed of yourself, Dobby, talking that way 
about your masters!” 

“They isn’t my masters anymore, Winky!” said Dobby 
defiantly. “Dobby doesn’t care what they think 
anymore!” 

“Oh you is a bad elf, Dobby!” moaned Winky, tears 
leaking down her face once more. “My poor Mr. 
Crouch, what is he doing without Winky? He is 
needing me, he is needing my help! I is looking after 
the Crouches all my life, and my mother is doing it 
before me, and my grandmother is doing it before her 
...oh what is they saying if they knew Winky was 
freed? Oh the shame, the shame!” She buried her face 
in her skirt again and bawled. 

“Winky,” said Hermione firmly, “I’m quite sure Mr. 
Crouch is getting along perfectly well without you. 
We’ve seen him, you know — ” 

“You is seeing my master?” said Winky breathlessly, 
raising her tearstained face out of her skirt once more 
and goggling at Hermione. “You is seeing him here at 
Hogwarts?” 

“Yes,” said Hermione, “he and Mr. Bagman are judges 
in the Tri-wizard Tournament.” 

“Mr. Bagman comes too?” squeaked Winky, and to 
Harry’s great surprise (and Ron’s and Hermione’s too, 
by the looks on their faces), she looked angry again. 



Page | 421 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Mr. Bagman is a bad wizard! A very bad wizard! My 
master isn’t liking him, oh no, not at all!” 

“Bagman — bad?” said Harry. 

“Oh yes,” Winky said, nodding her head furiously. 

“My master is telling Winky some things! But Winky 
is not saying ... Winky — Winky keeps her master’s 
secrets. ...” 

She dissolved yet again in tears; they could hear her 
sobbing into her skirt, “Poor master, poor master, no 
Winky to help him no more!” 

They couldn’t get another sensible word out of Winky. 
They left her to her crying and finished their tea, 
while Dobby chatted happily about his life as a free elf 
and his plans for his wages. 

“Dobby is going to buy a sweater next, Harry Potter!” 
he said happily, pointing at his bare chest. 

“Tell you what, Dobby,” said Ron, who seemed to have 
taken a great liking to the elf, “I’ll give you the one my 
mum knits me this Christmas, I always get one from 
her. You don’t mind maroon, do you?” 

Dobby was delighted. 

“We might have to shrink it a bit to fit you,” Ron told 
him, “but it’ll go well with your tea cozy.” 

As they prepared to take their leave, many of the 
surrounding elves pressed in upon them, offering 
snacks to take back upstairs. Hermione refused, with 
a pained look at the way the elves kept bowing and 
curtsying, but Harry and Ron loaded their pockets 
with cream cakes and pies. 



Page | 422 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Thanks a lot!” Harry said to the elves, who had all 
clustered around the door to say good night. “See 
you, Dobby!” 

“Harry Potter . . . can Dobby come and see you 
sometimes, sir?” Dobby asked tentatively. 

“ ’Course you can,” said Harry, and Dobby beamed. 

“You know what?” said Ron, once he, Hermione, and 
Harry had left the kitchens behind and were climbing 
the steps into the entrance hall again. “All these years 
I’ve been really impressed with Fred and George, 
nicking food from the kitchens — well, it’s not exactly 
difficult, is it? They can’t wait to give it away!” 

“I think this is the best thing that could have 
happened to those elves, you know,” said Hermione, 
leading the way back up the marble staircase. “Dobby 
coming to work here, I mean. The other elves will see 
how happy he is, being free, and slowly it’ll dawn on 
them that they want that too!” 

“Let’s hope they don’t look too closely at Winky,” said 
Harry. 

“Oh shell cheer up,” said Hermione, though she 
sounded a bit doubtful. “Once the shock’s worn off, 
and she’s got used to Hogwarts, she’ll see how much 
better off she is without that Crouch man.” 

“She seems to love him,” said Ron thickly (he had just 
started on a cream cake) . 

“Doesn’t think much of Bagman, though, does she?” 
said Harry. “Wonder what Crouch says at home about 
him?” 



Page | 423 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Probably says he’s not a very good Head of 
Department,” said Hermione, “and let’s face it ... he’s 
got a point, hasn’t he?” 

“I’d still rather work for him than old Crouch,” said 
Ron. “At least Bagman’s got a sense of humor.” 

“Don’t let Percy hear you saying that,” Hermione said, 
smiling slightly. 

“Yeah, well, Percy wouldn’t want to work for anyone 
with a sense of humor, would he?” said Ron, now 
starting on a chocolate eclair. “Percy wouldn’t 
recognize a joke if it danced naked in front of him 
wearing Dobby’s tea cozy.” 



Page | 424 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 





THE UNEXPECTED TASK 

“Potter! Weasley! Will you pay attention?” 

Professor McGonagall’s irritated voice cracked like a 
whip through the Transfiguration class on Thursday, 
and Harry and Ron both jumped and looked up. 

It was the end of the lesson; they had finished their 
work; the guinea fowl they had been changing into 
guinea pigs had been shut away in a large cage on 
Professor McGonagall’s desk (Neville’s still had 
feathers); they had copied down their homework from 
the blackboard (“Describe, with examples, the ways in 
which Transforming Spells must be adapted when 
performing Cross-Species Switches”). The bell was due 
to ring at any moment, and Harry and Ron, who had 
been having a sword fight with a couple of Fred and 
George’s fake wands at the back of the class, looked 
up, Ron holding a tin parrot and Harry, a rubber 
haddock. 

“Now that Potter and Weasley have been kind enough 
to act their age,” said Professor McGonagall, with an 

Page | 425 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



angry look at the pair of them as the head of Harry’s 
haddock drooped and fell silently to the floor — Ron’s 
parrot’s beak had severed it moments before — “I 
have something to say to you all. 

“The Yule Ball is approaching — a traditional part of 
the Tri-wizard Tournament and an opportunity for us 
to socialize with our foreign guests. Now, the ball will 
be open only to fourth years and above — although 
you may invite a younger student if you wish — ” 

Lavender Brown let out a shrill giggle. Parvati Patil 
nudged her hard in the ribs, her face working 
furiously as she too fought not to giggle. They both 
looked around at Harry. Professor McGonagall 
ignored them, which Harry thought was distinctly 
unfair, as she had just told off him and Ron. 

“Dress robes will be worn,” Professor McGonagall 
continued, “and the ball will start at eight o’clock on 
Christmas Day, finishing at midnight in the Great 
Hall. Now then — ” 

Professor McGonagall stared deliberately around the 
class. 

“The Yule Ball is of course a chance for us all to — er 
— let our hair down,” she said, in a disapproving 
voice. 

Lavender giggled harder than ever, with her hand 
pressed hard against her mouth to stifle the sound. 
Harry could see what was funny this time: Professor 
McGonagall, with her hair in a tight bun, looked as 
though she had never let her hair down in any sense. 

“But that does NOT mean,” Professor McGonagall 
went on, “that we will be relaxing the standards of 
behavior we expect from Hogwarts students. I will be 

Page | 426 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




most seriously displeased if a Gryffindor student 
embarrasses the school in any way.” 

The bell rang, and there was the usual scuffle of 
activity as everyone packed their bags and swung 
them onto their shoulders. 

Professor McGonagall called above the noise, “Potter 
— a word, if you please.” 

Assuming this had something to do with his headless 
rubber haddock, Harry proceeded gloomily to the 
teacher’s desk. Professor McGonagall waited until the 
rest of the class had gone, and then said, “Potter, the 
champions and their partners — ” 

“What partners?” said Harry. 

Professor McGonagall looked suspiciously at him, as 
though she thought he was trying to be funny. 

“Your partners for the Yule Ball, Potter,” she said 
coldly. “Your dance partners.” 

Harry’s insides seemed to curl up and shrivel. 

“Dance partners?” He felt himself going red. “I don’t 
dance,” he said quickly. 

“Oh yes, you do,” said Professor McGonagall irritably. 
“That’s what I’m telling you. Traditionally, the 
champions and their partners open the ball.” 

Harry had a sudden mental image of himself in a top 
hat and tails, accompanied by a girl in the sort of 
frilly dress Aunt Petunia always wore to Uncle 
Vernon’s work parties. 

“I’m not dancing,” he said. 

Page | 427 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“It is traditional,” said Professor McGonagall firmly. 
“You are a Hogwarts champion, and you will do what 
is expected of you as a representative of the school. 

So make sure you get yourself a partner, Potter.” 

“But — I don’t — ” 

“You heard me, Potter,” said Professor McGonagall in 
a very final sort of way. 

A week ago, Harry would have said finding a partner 
for a dance would be a cinch compared to taking on a 
Hungarian Horntail. But now that he had done the 
latter, and was facing the prospect of asking a girl to 
the ball, he thought he’d rather have another round 
with the dragon. 

Harry had never known so many people to put their 
names down to stay at Hogwarts for Christmas; he 
always did, of course, because the alternative was 
usually going back to Privet Drive, but he had always 
been very much in the minority before now. This year, 
however, everyone in the fourth year and above 
seemed to be staying, and they all seemed to Harry to 
be obsessed with the coming ball — or at least all the 
girls were, and it was amazing how many girls 
Hogwarts suddenly seemed to hold; he had never 
quite noticed that before. Girls giggling and 
whispering in the corridors, girls shrieking with 
laughter as boys passed them, girls excitedly 
comparing notes on what they were going to wear on 
Christmas night. ... 

“Why do they have to move in packs?” Harry asked 
Ron as a dozen or so girls walked past them, 
sniggering and staring at Harry. “How’re you 
supposed to get one on their own to ask them?” 



Page | 428 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Lasso one?” Ron suggested. “Got any idea who you’re 
going to try?” 

Harry didn’t answer. He knew perfectly well whom 
he’d like to ask, but working up the nerve was 
something else. ... Cho was a year older than he was; 
she was very pretty; she was a very good Quidditch 
player, and she was also very popular. 

Ron seemed to know what was going on inside 
Harry’s head. 

“Listen, you’re not going to have any trouble. You’re a 
champion. You’ve just beaten a Hungarian Horntail. I 
bet they 11 be queuing up to go with you.” 

In tribute to their recently repaired friendship, Ron 
had kept the bitterness in his voice to a bare 
minimum. Moreover, to Harry’s amazement, he 
turned out to be quite right. 

A curly-haired third-year Hufflepuff girl to whom 
Harry had never spoken in his life asked him to go to 
the ball with her the very next day. Harry was so 
taken aback he said no before he’d even stopped to 
consider the matter. The girl walked off looking rather 
hurt, and Harry had to endure Dean’s, Seamus’s, and 
Ron’s taunts about her all through History of Magic. 
The following day, two more girls asked him, a second 
year and (to his horror) a fifth year who looked as 
though she might knock him out if he refused. 

“She was quite good-looking,” said Ron fairly, after 
he’d stopped laughing. 

“She was a foot taller than me,” said Harry, still 
unnerved. “Imagine what I’d look like trying to dance 
with her.” 



Page | 429 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione’s words about Krum kept coming back to 
him. “They only like him because he’s famous!” Harry 
doubted very much if any of the girls who had asked 
to be his partner so far would have wanted to go to 
the ball with him if he hadn’t been a school 
champion. Then he wondered if this would bother 
him if Cho asked him. 

On the whole, Harry had to admit that even with the 
embarrassing prospect of opening the ball before him, 
life had definitely improved since he had got through 
the first task. He wasn’t attracting nearly as much 
unpleasantness in the corridors anymore, which he 
suspected had a lot to do with Cedric — he had an 
idea Cedric might have told the Hufflepuffs to leave 
Harry alone, in gratitude for Harry’s tip-off about the 
dragons. There seemed to be fewer Support Cedric 
Diggoryl badges around too. Draco Malfoy, of course, 
was still quoting Rita Skeeter’s article to him at every 
possible opportunity, but he was getting fewer and 
fewer laughs out of it — and just to heighten Harry’s 
feeling of well-being, no story about Hagrid had 
appeared in the Daily Prophet 

“She didn’ seem very int’rested in magical creatures, 
ter tell yeh the truth,” Hagrid said, when Harry, Ron, 
and Hermione asked him how his interview with Rita 
Skeeter had gone during the last Care of Magical 
Creatures lesson of the term. To their very great relief, 
Hagrid had given up on direct contact with the 
skrewts now, and they were merely sheltering behind 
his cabin today, sitting at a trestle table and 
preparing a fresh selection of food with which to 
tempt the skrewts. 

“She jus’ wanted me ter talk about you, Harry,” 

Hagrid continued in a low voice. “Well, I told her we’d 
been friends since I went ter fetch yeh from the 
Dursleys. ‘Never had to tell him off in four years?’ she 

Page | 430 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




said. ‘Never played you up in lessons, has he?’ I told 
her no, an’ she didn’ seem happy at all. Yeh’d think 
she wanted me to say yeh were horrible, Harry.” 

“ ’Course she did,” said Harry, throwing lumps of 
dragon liver into a large metal bowl and picking up 
his knife to cut some more. “She can’t keep writing 
about what a tragic little hero I am, it’ll get boring.” 

“She wants a new angle, Hagrid,” said Ron wisely as 
he shelled salamander eggs. “You were supposed to 
say Harry’s a mad delinquent!” 

“But he’s not!” said Hagrid, looking genuinely 
shocked. 

“She should’ve interviewed Snape,” said Harry grimly. 
“He’d give her the goods on me any day. ‘Potter has 
been crossing lines ever since he first arrived at this 
school. . . . ’ ” 

“Said that, did he?” said Hagrid, while Ron and 
Hermione laughed. “Well, yeh might’ve bent a few 
rules, Harry, bu’ yeh’re all righ’ really, aren’ you?” 

“Cheers, Hagrid,” said Harry, grinning. 

“You coming to this ball thing on Christmas Day, 
Hagrid?” said Ron. 

“Though’ I might look in on it, yeah,” said Hagrid 
gruffly. “Should be a good do, I reckon. You’ll be 
openin’ the dancin’, won’ yeh, Harry? Who ’re you 
takin’?” 

“No one, yet,” said Harry, feeling himself going red 
again. Hagrid didn’t pursue the subject. 



Page | 431 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




The last week of term became increasingly boisterous 
as it progressed. Rumors about the Yule Ball were 
flying everywhere, though Harry didn’t believe half of 
them — for instance, that Dumbledore had bought 
eight hundred barrels of mulled mead from Madam 
Rosmerta. It seemed to be fact, however, that he had 
booked the Weird Sisters. Exactly who or what the 
Weird Sisters were Harry didn’t know, never having 
had access to a wizard’s wireless, but he deduced 
from the wild excitement of those who had grown up 
listening to the WWN (Wizarding Wireless Network) 
that they were a very famous musical group. 

Some of the teachers, like little Professor Flitwick, 
gave up trying to teach them much when their minds 
were so clearly elsewhere; he allowed them to play 
games in his lesson on Wednesday, and spent most of 
it talking to Harry about the perfect Summoning 
Charm Harry had used during the first task of the 
Triwizard Tournament. Other teachers were not so 
generous. Nothing would ever deflect Professor Binns, 
for example, from plowing on through his notes on 
goblin rebellions — as Binns hadn’t let his own death 
stand in the way of continuing to teach, they 
supposed a small thing like Christmas wasn’t going to 
put him off. It was amazing how he could make even 
bloody and vicious goblin riots sound as boring as 
Percy’s cauldron-bottom report. Professors 
McGonagall and Moody kept them working until the 
very last second of their classes too, and Snape, of 
course, would no sooner let them play games in class 
than adopt Harry. Staring nastily around at them all, 
he informed them that he would be testing them on 
poison antidotes during the last lesson of the term. 

“Evil, he is,” Ron said bitterly that night in the 
Gryffindor common room. “Springing a test on us on 
the last day. Ruining the last bit of term with a whole 
load of studying.” 

Page | 432 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Mmm ... you’re not exactly straining yourself, 
though, are you?” said Hermione, looking at him over 
the top of her Potions notes. Ron was busy building a 
card castle out of his Exploding Snap pack — a much 
more interesting pastime than with Muggle cards, 
because of the chance that the whole thing would 
blow up at any second. 

“It’s Christmas, Hermione,” said Harry lazily; he was 
rereading Flying with the Cannons for the tenth time 
in an armchair near the fire. 

Hermione looked severely over at him too. “I’d have 
thought you’d be doing something constructive, 

Harry, even if you don’t want to learn your antidotes!” 

“Like what?” Harry said as he watched Joey Jenkins 
of the Cannons belt a Bludger toward a Ballycastle 
Bats Chaser. 

“That egg!” Hermione hissed. 

“Come on, Hermione, I’ve got till February the twenty- 
fourth,” Harry said. 

He had put the golden egg upstairs in his trunk and 
hadn’t opened it since the celebration party after the 
first task. There were still two and a half months to go 
until he needed to know what all the screechy wailing 
meant, after all. 

“But it might take weeks to work it out!” said 
Hermione. “You’re going to look a real idiot if everyone 
else knows what the next task is and you don’t!” 

“Leave him alone, Hermione, he’s earned a bit of a 
break,” said Ron, and he placed the last two cards on 
top of the castle and the whole lot blew up, singeing 
his eyebrows. 

Page | 433 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Nice look, Ron ... go well with your dress robes, that 
will.” 



It was Fred and George. They sat down at the table 
with Harry, Ron, and Hermione as Ron felt how much 
damage had been done. 

“Ron, can we borrow Pigwidgeon?” George asked. 

“No, he’s off delivering a letter,” said Ron. “Why?” 

“Because George wants to invite him to the ball,” said 
Fred sarcastically. 

“Because we want to send a letter, you stupid great 
prat,” said George. 

“Who d’you two keep writing to, eh?” said Ron. 

“Nose out, Ron, or I’ll burn that for you too,” said 
Fred, waving his wand threateningly. “So ... you lot 
got dates for the ball yet?” 

“Nope,” said Ron. 

“Well, you’d better hurry up, mate, or all the good 
ones will be gone,” said Fred. 

“Who’re you going with, then?” said Ron. 

“Angelina,” said Fred promptly, without a trace of 
embarrassment. 

“What?” said Ron, taken aback. “You’ve already asked 
her?” 

“Good point,” said Fred. He turned his head and 
called across the common room, “Oi! Angelina!” 

Page | 434 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Angelina, who had been chatting with Alicia Spinnet 
near the fire, looked over at him. 



“What?” she called back. 

“Want to come to the ball with me?” 

Angelina gave Fred an appraising sort of look. 

“All right, then,” she said, and she turned back to 
Alicia and carried on chatting with a bit of a grin on 
her face. 

“There you go,” said Fred to Harry and Ron, “piece of 
cake.” 

He got to his feet, yawning, and said, “We’d better use 
a school owl then, George, come on. ...” 

They left. Ron stopped feeling his eyebrows and 
looked across the smoldering wreck of his card castle 
at Harry. 

“We should get a move on, you know ... ask someone. 
He’s right. We don’t want to end up with a pair of 
trolls.” 

Hermione let out a sputter of indignation. 

“A pair of . . . what, excuse me?” 

“Well — you know,” said Ron, shrugging. “I’d rather 
go alone than with — with Eloise Midgen, say.” 

“Her acne’s loads better lately — and she’s really 
nice!” 

“Her nose is off-center,” said Ron. 

Page | 435 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh I see,” Hermione said, bristling. “So basically, 
you’re going to take the best-looking girl who’ll have 
you, even if she’s completely horrible?” 

“Er — yeah, that sounds about right,” said Ron. 

“I’m going to bed,” Hermione snapped, and she swept 
off toward the girls’ staircase without another word. 

The Hogwarts staff, demonstrating a continued desire 
to impress the visitors from Beauxbatons and 
Durmstrang, seemed determined to show the castle at 
its best this Christmas. When the decorations went 
up, Harry noticed that they were the most stunning 
he had yet seen inside the school. Everlasting icicles 
had been attached to the banisters of the marble 
staircase; the usual twelve Christmas trees in the 
Great Hall were bedecked with everything from 
luminous holly berries to real, hooting, golden owls, 
and the suits of armor had all been bewitched to sing 
carols whenever anyone passed them. It was quite 
something to hear “O Come, All Ye Faithful” sung by 
an empty helmet that only knew half the words. 
Several times, Filch the caretaker had to extract 
Peeves from inside the armor, where he had taken to 
hiding, filling in the gaps in the songs with lyrics of 
his own invention, all of which were very rude. 

And still, Harry hadn’t asked Cho to the ball. He and 
Ron were getting very nervous now, though as Harry 
pointed out, Ron would look much less stupid than 
he would without a partner; Harry was supposed to 
be starting the dancing with the other champions. 

“I suppose there’s always Moaning Myrtle,” he said 
gloomily, referring to the ghost who haunted the girls’ 
toilets on the second floor. 



Page | 436 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry — we’ve just got to grit our teeth and do it,” 
said Ron on Friday morning, in a tone that suggested 
they were planning the storming of an impregnable 
fortress. “When we get back to the common room 
tonight, we’ll both have partners — agreed?” 

“Er ... okay,” said Harry. 

But every time he glimpsed Cho that day — during 
break, and then lunchtime, and once on the way to 
History of Magic — she was surrounded by friends. 
Didn’t she ever go anywhere alone? Could he perhaps 
ambush her as she was going into a bathroom? But 
no — she even seemed to go there with an escort of 
four or five girls. Yet if he didn’t do it soon, she was 
bound to have been asked by somebody else. 

He found it hard to concentrate on Snape’s Potions 
test, and consequently forgot to add the key 
ingredient — a bezoar — meaning that he received 
bottom marks. He didn’t care, though; he was too 
busy screwing up his courage for what he was about 
to do. When the bell rang, he grabbed his bag, and 
hurried to the dungeon door. 

“I’ll meet you at dinner,” he said to Ron and 
Hermione, and he dashed off upstairs. 

He’d just have to ask Cho for a private word, that was 
all. ... He hurried off through the packed corridors 
looking for her, and (rather sooner than he had 
expected) he found her, emerging from a Defense 
Against the Dark Arts lesson. 

“Er — Cho? Could I have a word with you?” 

Giggling should be made illegal, Harry thought 
furiously, as all the girls around Cho started doing it. 



Page | 437 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




She didn’t, though. She said, “Okay,” and followed 
him out of earshot of her classmates. 

Harry turned to look at her and his stomach gave a 
weird lurch as though he had missed a step going 
downstairs. 

“Er,” he said. 

He couldn’t ask her. He couldn’t. But he had to. Cho 
stood there looking puzzled, watching him. 

The words came out before Harry had quite got his 
tongue around them. 

“Wangoballwime?” 

“Sorry?” said Cho. 

“D’you — d’you want to go to the ball with me?” said 
Harry. Why did he have to go red now? Why ? 

“Oh!” said Cho, and she went red too. “Oh Harry, I’m 
really sorry,” and she truly looked it. “I’ve already said 
I’ll go with someone else.” 

“Oh,” said Harry. 

It was odd; a moment before his insides had been 
writhing like snakes, but suddenly he didn’t seem to 
have any insides at all. 

“Oh okay,” he said, “no problem.” 

“I’m really sorry,” she said again. 

“That’s okay,” said Harry. 



Page | 438 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




They stood there looking at each other, and then Cho 
said, “Well — ” 

“Yeah,” said Harry. 

“Well, ’bye,” said Cho, still very red. She walked away. 
Harry called after her, before he could stop himself. 
“Who ’re you going with?” 

“Oh — Cedric,” she said. “Cedric Diggory.” 

“Oh right,” said Harry. 

His insides had come back again. It felt as though 
they had been filled with lead in their absence. 

Completely forgetting about dinner, he walked slowly 
back up to Gryffindor Tower, Cho’s voice echoing in 
his ears with every step he took. “ Cedric — Cedric 
Diggory.” He had been starting to quite like Cedric — 
prepared to overlook the fact that he had once beaten 
him at Quidditch, and was handsome, and popular, 
and nearly everyone’s favorite champion. Now he 
suddenly realized that Cedric was in fact a useless 
pretty boy who didn’t have enough brains to fill an 
eggcup. 

“Fairy lights,” he said dully to the Fat Lady — the 
password had been changed the previous day. 

“Yes, indeed, dear!” she trilled, straightening her new 
tinsel hair band as she swung forward to admit him. 

Entering the common room, Harry looked around, 
and to his surprise he saw Ron sitting ashen-faced in 
a distant corner. Ginny was sitting with him, talking 
to him in what seemed to be a low, soothing voice. 

Page | 439 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“What’s up, Ron?” said Harry, joining them. 



Ron looked up at Harry, a sort of blind horror in his 
face. 

“Why did I do it?” he said wildly. “I don’t know what 
made me do it!” 

“What?” said Harry. 

“He — er — just asked Fleur Delacour to go to the 
ball with him,” said Ginny. She looked as though she 
was fighting back a smile, but she kept patting Ron’s 
arm sympathetically. 

“You what?” said Harry. 

“I don’t know what made me do it!” Ron gasped again. 
“What was I playing at? There were people — all 
around — I’ve gone mad — everyone watching! I was 
just walking past her in the entrance hall — she was 
standing there talking to Diggory — and it sort of 
came over me — and I asked her!” 

Ron moaned and put his face in his hands. He kept 
talking, though the words were barely 
distinguishable. 

“She looked at me like I was a sea slug or something. 
Didn’t even answer. And then — I dunno — I just sort 
of came to my senses and ran for it.” 

“She’s part veela,” said Harry. “You were right — her 
grandmother was one. It wasn’t your fault, I bet you 
just walked past when she was turning on the old 
charm for Diggory and got a blast of it — but she was 
wasting her time. He’s going with Cho Chang.” 

Ron looked up. 

Page | 440 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I asked her to go with me just now,” Harry said dully, 
“and she told me.” 

Ginny had suddenly stopped smiling. 

“This is mad,” said Ron. “We’re the only ones left who 
haven’t got anyone — well, except Neville. Hey — 
guess who he asked? Hermionel” 

“ What?” said Harry, completely distracted by this 
startling news. 

“Yeah, I know!” said Ron, some of the color coming 
back into his face as he started to laugh. “He told me 
after Potions! Said she’s always been really nice, 
helping him out with work and stuff — but she told 
him she was already going with someone. Ha! As if! 
She just didn’t want to go with Neville ... I mean, who 
would?” 

“Don’t!” said Ginny, annoyed. “Don’t laugh — ” 

Just then Hermione climbed in through the portrait 
hole. 

“Why weren’t you two at dinner?” she said, coming 
over to join them. 

“Because — oh shut up laughing, you two — because 
they’ve both just been turned down by girls they 
asked to the ball!” said Ginny. 

That shut Harry and Ron up. 

“Thanks a bunch, Ginny,” said Ron sourly. 

“All the good-looking ones taken, Ron?” said 
Hermione loftily. “Eloise Midgen starting to look quite 



Page | 441 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




pretty now, is she? Well, I’m sure you’ll find someone 
somewhere who’ll have you.” 

But Ron was staring at Hermione as though suddenly 
seeing her in a whole new light. 

“Hermione, Neville’s right — you are a girl. ...” 

“Oh well spotted,” she said acidly. 

“Well — you can come with one of us!” 

“No, I can’t,” snapped Hermione. 

“Oh come on,” he said impatiently, “we need partners, 
we’re going to look really stupid if we haven’t got any, 
everyone else has ...” 

“I can’t come with you,” said Hermione, now blushing, 
“because I’m already going with someone.” 

“No, you’re not!” said Ron. “You just said that to get 
rid of Neville!” 

“Oh did I?” said Hermione, and her eyes flashed 
dangerously. “Just because it’s taken you three years 
to notice, Ron, doesn’t mean no one else has spotted 
I’m a girl!” 

Ron stared at her. Then he grinned again. 

“Okay, okay, we know you’re a girl,” he said. “That 
do? Will you come now?” 

“I’ve already told you!” Hermione said very angrily. 

“I’m going with someone else!” 

And she stormed off toward the girls’ dormitories 
again. 

Page | 442 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“She’s lying,” said Ron flatly, watching her go. 

“She’s not,” said Ginny quietly. 

“Who is it then?” said Ron sharply. 

“I’m not telling you, it’s her business,” said Ginny. 

“Right,” said Ron, who looked extremely put out, “this 
is getting stupid. Ginny, you can go with Harry, and 
I’ll just—” 

“I can’t,” said Ginny, and she went scarlet too. “I’m 
going with — with Neville. He asked me when 
Hermione said no, and I thought ... well ... I’m not 
going to be able to go otherwise, I’m not in fourth 
year.” She looked extremely miserable. “I think I’ll go 
and have dinner,” she said, and she got up and 
walked off to the portrait hole, her head bowed. 

Ron goggled at Harry. 

“What’s got into them?” he demanded. 

But Harry had just seen Parvati and Lavender come 
in through the portrait hole. The time had come for 
drastic action. 

“Wait here,” he said to Ron, and he stood up, walked 
straight up to Parvati, and said, “Parvati? Will you go 
to the ball with me?” 

Parvati went into a fit of giggles. Harry waited for 
them to subside, his fingers crossed in the pocket of 
his robes. 

“Yes, all right then,” she said finally, blushing 
furiously. 



Page | 443 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Thanks,” said Harry, in relief. “Lavender — will you 
go with Ron?” 

“She’s going with Seamus,” said Parvati, and the pair 
of them giggled harder than ever. 

Harry sighed. 

“Can’t you think of anyone who’d go with Ron?” he 
said, lowering his voice so that Ron wouldn’t hear. 

“What about Hermione Granger?” said Parvati. 

“She’s going with someone else.” 

Parvati looked astonished. 

“Ooooh — who?” she said keenly. 

Harry shrugged. “No idea,” he said. “So what about 
Ron?” 

“Well ...” said Parvati slowly, “I suppose my sister 
might ... Padma, you know ... in Ravenclaw. I’ll ask 
her if you like.” 

“Yeah, that would be great,” said Harry. “Let me 
know, will you?” 

And he went back over to Ron, feeling that this ball 
was a lot more trouble than it was worth, and hoping 
very much that Padma Patil’s nose was dead center. 



Page | 444 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






THE YULE BALL 

Despite the very heavy load of homework that the 
fourth years had been given for the holidays, Harry 
was in no mood to work when term ended, and spent 
the week leading up to Christmas enjoying himself as 
fully as possible along with everyone else. Gryffindor 
Tower was hardly less crowded now than during 
term-time; it seemed to have shrunk slightly too, as 
its inhabitants were being so much rowdier than 
usual. Fred and George had had a great success with 
their Canary Creams, and for the first couple of days 
of the holidays, people kept bursting into feather all 
over the place. Before long, however, all the 
Gryffindors had learned to treat food anybody else 
offered them with extreme caution, in case it had a 
Canary Cream concealed in the center, and George 
confided to Harry that he and Fred were now working 
on developing something else. Harry made a mental 
note never to accept so much as a crisp from Fred 
and George in future. He still hadn’t forgotten Dudley 
and the Ton-Tongue Toffee. 



Page | 445 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



Snow was falling thickly upon the castle and its 
grounds now. The pale blue Beauxbatons carriage 
looked like a large, chilly, frosted pumpkin next to the 
iced gingerbread house that was Hagrid’s cabin, while 
the Durmstrang ship’s portholes were glazed with ice, 
the rigging white with frost. The house-elves down in 
the kitchen were outdoing themselves with a series of 
rich, warming stews and savory puddings, and only 
Fleur Delacour seemed to be able to find anything to 
complain about. 

“It is too ’eavy, all zis ’Ogwarts food,” they heard her 
saying grumpily as they left the Great Hall behind her 
one evening (Ron skulking behind Harry, keen not to 
be spotted by Fleur). “I will not fit into my dress 
robes!” 

“Oooh there’s a tragedy,” Hermione snapped as Fleur 
went out into the entrance hall. “She really thinks a 
lot of herself, that one, doesn’t she?” 

“Hermione — who are you going to the ball with?” 
said Ron. 

He kept springing this question on her, hoping to 
startle her into a response by asking it when she least 
expected it. However, Hermione merely frowned and 
said, “I’m not telling you, you’ll just make fun of me.” 

“You’re joking, Weasley!” said Malfoy, behind them. 
“You’re not telling me someone’s asked that to the 
ball? Not the long-molared Mudblood?” 

Harry and Ron both whipped around, but Hermione 
said loudly, waving to somebody over Malfoy’s 
shoulder, “Hello, Professor Moody!” 



Page | 446 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Malfoy went pale and jumped backward, looking 
wildly around for Moody, but he was still up at the 
staff table, finishing his stew. 

“Twitchy little ferret, aren’t you, Malfoy?” said 
Hermione scathingly, and she, Harry, and Ron went 
up the marble staircase laughing heartily. 

“Hermione,” said Ron, looking sideways at her, 
suddenly frowning, “your teeth ...” 

“What about them?” she said. 

“Well, they’re different ... I’ve just noticed. ...” 

“Of course they are — did you expect me to keep 
those fangs Malfoy gave me?” 

“No, I mean, they’re different to how they were before 
he put that hex on you. ... They’re all ... straight and 
— and normal-sized.” 

Hermione suddenly smiled very mischievously, and 
Harry noticed it too: It was a very different smile from 
the one he remembered. 

“Well ... when I went up to Madam Pomfrey to get 
them shrunk, she held up a mirror and told me to 
stop her when they were back to how they normally 
were,” she said. “And I just ... let her carry on a bit.” 
She smiled even more widely. “Mum and Dad won’t be 
too pleased. I’ve been trying to persuade them to let 
me shrink them for ages, but they wanted me to carry 
on with my braces. You know, they’re dentists, they 
just don’t think teeth and magic should — look! 
Pigwidgeon’s back!” 

Ron’s tiny owl was twittering madly on the top of the 
icicle-laden banisters, a scroll of parchment tied to 

Page | 447 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




his leg. People passing him were pointing and 
laughing, and a group of third-year girls paused and 
said, “Oh look at the weeny owl! Isn’t he cute?” 

“Stupid little feathery git!” Ron hissed, hurrying up 
the stairs and snatching up Pigwidgeon. “You bring 
letters to the addressee! You don’t hang around 
showing off!” 

Pigwidgeon hooted happily, his head protruding over 
Ron’s fist. The third-year girls all looked very 
shocked. 

“Clear off!” Ron snapped at them, waving the fist 
holding Pigwidgeon, who hooted more happily than 
ever as he soared through the air. “Here — take it, 
Harry,” Ron added in an undertone as the third-year 
girls scuttled away looking scandalized. He pulled 
Sirius’s reply off Pigwidgeon’s leg, Harry pocketed it, 
and they hurried back to Gryffindor Tower to read it. 

Everyone in the common room was much too busy in 
letting off more holiday steam to observe what anyone 
else was up to. Ron, Harry, and Hermione sat apart 
from everyone else by a dark window that was 
gradually filling up with snow, and Harry read out: 

Dear Harry, 

Congratulations on getting past the Horntail. Whoever 
put your name in that goblet shouldn’t be feeling too 
happy right now! I was going to suggest a 
Conjunctivitis Curse, as a dragon’s eyes are its 
weakest point — “That’s what Krum did!” Hermione 
whispered — but your way was better, I’m impressed. 

Don’t get complacent, though, Harry. You’ve only done 
one task; whoever put you in for the tournament’s got 
plenty more opportunity if they’re trying to hurt you. 

Page | 448 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Keep your eyes open — particularly when the person 
we discussed is around — and concentrate on keeping 
yourself out of trouble. 

Keep in touch, I still want to hear about anything 
unusual. 

Sirius 

“He sounds exactly like Moody,” said Harry quietly, 
tucking the letter away again inside his robes. “ 
‘Constant vigilance!’ You’d think I walk around with 
my eyes shut, banging off the walls. ...” 

“But he’s right, Harry,” said Hermione, “you have still 
got two tasks to do. You really ought to have a look at 
that egg, you know, and start working out what it 
means. ...” 

“Hermione, he’s got ages!” snapped Ron. “Want a 
game of chess, Harry?” 

“Yeah, okay,” said Harry. Then, spotting the look on 
Hermione ’s face, he said, “Come on, how’m I 
supposed to concentrate with all this noise going on? 

I won’t even be able to hear the egg over this lot.” 

“Oh I suppose not,” she sighed, and she sat down to 
watch their chess match, which culminated in an 
exciting checkmate of Ron’s, involving a couple of 
recklessly brave pawns and a very violent bishop. 

Harry awoke very suddenly on Christmas Day. 
Wondering what had caused his abrupt return to 
consciousness, he opened his eyes, and saw 
something with very large, round, green eyes staring 
back at him in the darkness, so close they were 
almost nose to nose. 



Page | 449 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Dobbyl” Harry yelled, scrambling away from the elf 
so fast he almost fell out of bed. “Don’t do that!” 

“Dobby is sorry, sir!” squeaked Dobby anxiously, 
jumping backward with his long fingers over his 
mouth. “Dobby is only wanting to wish Harry Potter 
‘Merry Christmas’ and bring him a present, sir! Harry 
Potter did say Dobby could come and see him 
sometimes, sir!” 

“It’s okay,” said Harry, still breathing rather faster 
than usual, while his heart rate returned to normal. 
“Just — just prod me or something in future, all right, 
don’t bend over me like that. ...” 

Harry pulled back the curtains around his four- 
poster, took his glasses from his bedside table, and 
put them on. His yell had awoken Ron, Seamus, 

Dean, and Neville. All of them were peering through 
the gaps in their own hangings, heavy-eyed and 
tousle-haired. 

“Someone attacking you, Harry?” Seamus asked 
sleepily. 

“No, it’s just Dobby,” Harry muttered. “Go back to 
sleep.” 

“Nah ... presents!” said Seamus, spotting the large 
pile at the foot of his bed. Ron, Dean, and Neville 
decided that now they were awake they might as well 
get down to some present-opening too. Harry turned 
back to Dobby, who was now standing nervously next 
to Harry’s bed, still looking worried that he had upset 
Harry. There was a Christmas bauble tied to the loop 
on top of his tea cozy. 

“Can Dobby give Harry Potter his present?” he 
squeaked tentatively. 

Page | 450 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“ ’Course you can,” said Harry. “Er ... I’ve got 
something for you too.” 

It was a lie; he hadn’t bought anything for Dobby at 
all, but he quickly opened his trunk and pulled out a 
particularly knobbly rolled-up pair of socks. They 
were his oldest and foulest, mustard yellow, and had 
once belonged to Uncle Vernon. The reason they were 
extra-knobbly was that Harry had been using them to 
cushion his Sneakoscope for over a year now. He 
pulled out the Sneakoscope and handed the socks to 
Dobby, saying, “Sorry, I forgot to wrap them. ...” 

But Dobby was utterly delighted. 

“Socks are Dobby’s favorite, favorite clothes, sir!” he 
said, ripping off his odd ones and pulling on Uncle 
Vernon’s. “I has seven now, sir. ... But sir ...” he said, 
his eyes widening, having pulled both socks up to 
their highest extent, so that they reached to the 
bottom of his shorts, “they has made a mistake in the 
shop, Harry Potter, they is giving you two the same!” 

“Ah, no, Harry, how come you didn’t spot that?” said 
Ron, grinning over from his own bed, which was now 
strewn with wrapping paper. “Tell you what, Dobby — 
here you go — take these two, and you can mix them 
up properly. And here’s your sweater.” 

He threw Dobby a pair of violet socks he had just 
unwrapped, and the hand-knitted sweater Mrs. 
Weasley had sent. Dobby looked quite overwhelmed. 

“Sir is very kind!” he squeaked, his eyes brimming 
with tears again, bowing deeply to Ron. “Dobby knew 
sir must be a great wizard, for he is Harry Potter’s 
greatest friend, but Dobby did not know that he was 
also as generous of spirit, as noble, as selfless — ” 



Page | 451 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“They’re only socks,” said Ron, who had gone slightly 
pink around the ears, though he looked rather 
pleased all the same. “Wow, Harry — ” He had just 
opened Harry’s present, a Chudley Cannon hat. 

“Cool!” He jammed it onto his head, where it clashed 
horribly with his hair. 

Dobby now handed Harry a small package, which 
turned out to be — socks. 

“Dobby is making them himself, sir!” the elf said 
happily. “He is buying the wool out of his wages, sir!” 

The left sock was bright red and had a pattern of 
broomsticks upon it; the right sock was green with a 
pattern of Snitches. 

“They’re ... they’re really ... well, thanks, Dobby,” said 
Harry, and he pulled them on, causing Dobby’s eyes 
to leak with happiness again. 

“Dobby must go now, sir, we is already making 
Christmas dinner in the kitchens!” said Dobby, and 
he hurried out of the dormitory, waving good-bye to 
Ron and the others as he passed. 

Harry’s other presents were much more satisfactory 
than Dobby’s odd socks — with the obvious exception 
of the Dursleys’, which consisted of a single tissue, an 
all-time low — Harry supposed they too were 
remembering the Ton-Tongue Toffee. Hermione had 
given Harry a book called Quidditch Teams of Britain 
and Ireland ; Ron, a bulging bag of Dungbombs; 

Sirius, a handy penknife with attachments to unlock 
any lock and undo any knot; and Hagrid, a vast box 
of sweets including all Harry’s favorites: Bertie Bott’s 
Every Flavor Beans, Chocolate Frogs, Drooble’s Best 
Blowing Gum, and Fizzing Whizbees. There was also, 
of course, Mrs. Weasley’s usual package, including a 
Page | 452 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




new sweater (green, with a picture of a dragon on it — 
Harry supposed Charlie had told her all about the 
Horntail), and a large quantity of homemade mince 
pies. 

Harry and Ron met up with Hermione in the common 
room, and they went down to breakfast together. They 
spent most of the morning in Gryffindor Tower, where 
everyone was enjoying their presents, then returned 
to the Great Hall for a magnificent lunch, which 
included at least a hundred turkeys and Christmas 
puddings, and large piles of Cribbage’s Wizarding 
Crackers. 

They went out onto the grounds in the afternoon; the 
snow was untouched except for the deep channels 
made by the Durmstrang and Beauxbatons students 
on their way up to the castle. Hermione chose to 
watch Harry and the Weasleys’ snowball fight rather 
than join in, and at five o’clock said she was going 
back upstairs to get ready for the ball. 

“What, you need three hours?” said Ron, looking at 
her incredulously and paying for his lapse in 
concentration when a large snowball, thrown by 
George, hit him hard on the side of the head. “Who ’re 
you going with?” he yelled after Hermione, but she 
just waved and disappeared up the stone steps into 
the castle. 

There was no Christmas tea today, as the ball 
included a feast, so at seven o’clock, when it had 
become hard to aim properly, the others abandoned 
their snowball fight and trooped back to the common 
room. The Fat Lady was sitting in her frame with her 
friend Violet from downstairs, both of them extremely 
tipsy, empty boxes of chocolate liqueurs littering the 
bottom of her picture. 



Page | 453 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Lairy fights, that’s the one!” she giggled when they 
gave the password, and she swung forward to let 
them inside. 

Harry, Ron, Seamus, Dean, and Neville changed into 
their dress robes up in their dormitory, all of them 
looking very self-conscious, but none as much as 
Ron, who surveyed himself in the long mirror in the 
corner with an appalled look on his face. There was 
just no getting around the fact that his robes looked 
more like a dress than anything else. In a desperate 
attempt to make them look more manly, he used a 
Severing Charm on the ruff and cuffs. It worked fairly 
well; at least he was now lace-free, although he hadn’t 
done a very neat job, and the edges still looked 
depressingly frayed as the boys set off downstairs. 

“I still can’t work out how you two got the best- 
looking girls in the year,” muttered Dean. 

“Animal magnetism,” said Ron gloomily, pulling stray 
threads out of his cuffs. 

The common room looked strange, full of people 
wearing different colors instead of the usual mass of 
black. Parvati was waiting for Harry at the foot of the 
stairs. She looked very pretty indeed, in robes of 
shocking pink, with her long dark plait braided with 
gold, and gold bracelets glimmering at her wrists. 
Harry was relieved to see that she wasn’t giggling. 

“You — er — look nice,” he said awkwardly. 

“Thanks,” she said. “Padma’s going to meet you in the 
entrance hall,” she added to Ron. 

“Right,” said Ron, looking around. “Where’s 
Hermione?” 



Page | 454 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Parvati shrugged. “Shall we go down then, Harry?” 



“Okay,” said Harry, wishing he could just stay in the 
common room. Fred winked at Harry as he passed 
him on the way out of the portrait hole. 

The entrance hall was packed with students too, all 
milling around waiting for eight o’clock, when the 
doors to the Great Hall would be thrown open. Those 
people who were meeting partners from different 
Houses were edging through the crowd trying to find 
one another. Parvati found her sister, Padma, and led 
her over to Harry and Ron. 

“Hi,” said Padma, who was looking just as pretty as 
Parvati in robes of bright turquoise. She didn’t look 
too enthusiastic about having Ron as a partner, 
though; her dark eyes lingered on the frayed neck and 
sleeves of his dress robes as she looked him up and 
down. 

“Hi,” said Ron, not looking at her, but staring around 
at the crowd. “Oh no ...” 

He bent his knees slightly to hide behind Harry, 
because Fleur Delacour was passing, looking 
stunning in robes of silver-gray satin, and 
accompanied by the Ravenclaw Quidditch captain, 
Roger Davies. When they had disappeared, Ron stood 
straight again and stared over the heads of the crowd. 

“Where is Hermione?” he said again. 

A group of Slytherins came up the steps from their 
dungeon common room. Malfoy was in front; he was 
wearing dress robes of black velvet with a high collar, 
which in Harry’s opinion made him look like a vicar. 
Pansy Parkinson in very frilly robes of pale pink was 
clutching Malfoy’s arm. Crabbe and Goyle were both 
Page | 455 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




wearing green; they resembled moss-colored boulders, 
and neither of them, Harry was pleased to see, had 
managed to find a partner. 

The oak front doors opened, and everyone turned to 
look as the Durmstrang students entered with 
Professor Karkaroff. Krum was at the front of the 
party, accompanied by a pretty girl in blue robes 
Harry didn’t know. Over their heads he saw that an 
area of lawn right in front of the castle had been 
transformed into a sort of grotto full of fairy lights — 
meaning hundreds of actual living fairies were sitting 
in the rosebushes that had been conjured there, and 
fluttering over the statues of what seemed to be 
Father Christmas and his reindeer. 

Then Professor McGonagall’s voice called, 

“Champions over here, please!” 

Parvati readjusted her bangles, beaming; she and 
Harry said “See you in a minute” to Ron and Padma 
and walked forward, the chattering crowd parting to 
let them through. Professor McGonagall, who was 
wearing dress robes of red tartan and had arranged a 
rather ugly wreath of thistles around the brim of her 
hat, told them to wait on one side of the doors while 
everyone else went inside; they were to enter the 
Great Hall in procession when the rest of the students 
had sat down. Fleur Delacour and Roger Davies 
stationed themselves nearest the doors; Davies looked 
so stunned by his good fortune in having Fleur for a 
partner that he could hardly take his eyes off her. 
Cedric and Cho were close to Harry too; he looked 
away from them so he wouldn’t have to talk to them. 
His eyes fell instead on the girl next to Krum. His jaw 
dropped. 

It was Hermione. 



Page | 456 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




But she didn’t look like Hermione at all. She had done 
something with her hair; it was no longer bushy but 
sleek and shiny, and twisted up into an elegant knot 
at the back of her head. She was wearing robes made 
of a floaty, periwinkle-blue material, and she was 
holding herself differently, somehow — or maybe it 
was merely the absence of the twenty or so books she 
usually had slung over her back. She was also 
smiling — rather nervously, it was true — but the 
reduction in the size of her front teeth was more 
noticeable than ever; Harry couldn’t understand how 
he hadn’t spotted it before. 

“Hi, Harry!” she said. “Hi, Parvati!” 

Parvati was gazing at Hermione in unflattering 
disbelief. She wasn’t the only one either; when the 
doors to the Great Hall opened, Krum’s fan club from 
the library stalked past, throwing Hermione looks of 
deepest loathing. Pansy Parkinson gaped at her as 
she walked by with Malfoy, and even he didn’t seem 
to be able to find an insult to throw at her. Ron, 
however, walked right past Hermione without looking 
at her. 

Once everyone else was settled in the Hall, Professor 
McGonagall told the champions and their partners to 
get in line in pairs and to follow her. They did so, and 
everyone in the Great Hall applauded as they entered 
and started walking up toward a large round table at 
the top of the Hall, where the judges were sitting. 

The walls of the Hall had all been covered in sparkling 
silver frost, with hundreds of garlands of mistletoe 
and ivy crossing the starry black ceiling. The House 
tables had vanished; instead, there were about a 
hundred smaller, lantern-lit ones, each seating about 
a dozen people. 



Page | 457 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry concentrated on not tripping over his feet. 
Parvati seemed to be enjoying herself; she was 
beaming around at everybody, steering Harry so 
forcefully that he felt as though he were a show dog 
she was putting through its paces. He caught sight of 
Ron and Padma as he neared the top table. Ron was 
watching Hermione pass with narrowed eyes. Padma 
was looking sulky. 

Dumbledore smiled happily as the champions 
approached the top table, but Karkaroff wore an 
expression remarkably like Ron’s as he watched 
Krum and Hermione draw nearer. Ludo Bagman, 
tonight in robes of bright purple with large yellow 
stars, was clapping as enthusiastically as any of the 
students; and Madame Maxime, who had changed 
her usual uniform of black satin for a flowing gown of 
lavender silk, was applauding them politely. But Mr. 
Crouch, Harry suddenly realized, was not there. The 
fifth seat at the table was occupied by Percy Weasley. 

When the champions and their partners reached the 
table, Percy drew out the empty chair beside him, 
staring pointedly at Harry. Harry took the hint and 
sat down next to Percy, who was wearing brand-new, 
navy-blue dress robes and an expression of such 
smugness that Harry thought it ought to be fined. 

“I’ve been promoted,” Percy said before Harry could 
even ask, and from his tone, he might have been 
announcing his election as supreme ruler of the 
universe. “I’m now Mr. Crouch’s personal assistant, 
and I’m here representing him.” 

“Why didn’t he come?” Harry asked. He wasn’t looking 
forward to being lectured on cauldron bottoms all 
through dinner. 



Page | 458 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




‘Tm afraid to say Mr. Crouch isn’t well, not well at all. 
Hasn’t been right since the World Cup. Hardly 
surprising — overwork. He’s not as young as he was 
— though still quite brilliant, of course, the mind 
remains as great as it ever was. But the World Cup 
was a fiasco for the whole Ministry, and then, Mr. 
Crouch suffered a huge personal shock with the 
misbehavior of that house-elf of his, Blinky, or 
whatever she was called. Naturally, he dismissed her 
immediately afterward, but — well, as I say, he’s 
getting on, he needs looking after, and I think he’s 
found a definite drop in his home comforts since she 
left. And then we had the tournament to arrange, and 
the aftermath of the Cup to deal with — that revolting 
Skeeter woman buzzing around — no, poor man, he’s 
having a well earned, quiet Christmas. I’m just glad 
he knew he had someone he could rely upon to take 
his place.” 

Harry wanted very much to ask whether Mr. Crouch 
had stopped calling Percy “Weatherby” yet, but 
resisted the temptation. 

There was no food as yet on the glittering golden 
plates, but small menus were lying in front of each of 
them. Harry picked his up uncertainly and looked 
around — there were no waiters. Dumbledore, 
however, looked carefully down at his own menu, 
then said very clearly to his plate, “Pork chops!” 

And pork chops appeared. Getting the idea, the rest of 
the table placed their orders with their plates too. 
Harry glanced up at Hermione to see how she felt 
about this new and more complicated method of 
dining — surely it meant plenty of extra work for the 
house-elves? — but for once, Hermione didn’t seem to 
be thinking about S.P.E.W. She was deep in talk with 
Viktor Krum and hardly seemed to notice what she 
was eating. 

Page | 459 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




It now occurred to Harry that he had never actually 
heard Krum speak before, but he was certainly 
talking now, and very enthusiastically at that. 

“Veil, ve have a castle also, not as big as this, nor as 
comfortable, I am thinking,” he was telling Hermione. 
“Ve have just four floors, and the fires are lit only for 
magical purposes. But ve have grounds larger even 
than these — though in vinter, ve have very little 
daylight, so ve are not enjoying them. But in summer 
ve are flying every day, over the lakes and the 
mountains — ” 

“Now, now, Viktor!” said Karkaroff with a laugh that 
didn’t reach his cold eyes, “don’t go giving away 
anything else, now, or your charming friend will know 
exactly where to find us!” 

Dumbledore smiled, his eyes twinkling. “Igor, all this 
secrecy ... one would almost think you didn’t want 
visitors.” 

“Well, Dumbledore,” said Karkaroff, displaying his 
yellowing teeth to their fullest extent, “we are all 
protective of our private domains, are we not? Do we 
not jealously guard the halls of learning that have 
been entrusted to us? Are we not right to be proud 
that we alone know our school’s secrets, and right to 
protect them?” 

“Oh I would never dream of assuming I know all 
Hogwarts’ secrets, Igor,” said Dumbledore amicably. 
“Only this morning, for instance, I took a wrong 
turning on the way to the bathroom and found myself 
in a beautifully proportioned room I have never seen 
before, containing a really rather magnificent 
collection of chamber pots. When I went back to 
investigate more closely, I discovered that the room 
had vanished. But I must keep an eye out for it. 

Page | 460 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Possibly it is only accessible at five-thirty in the 
morning. Or it may only appear at the quarter moon 
— or when the seeker has an exceptionally full 
bladder.” 

Harry snorted into his plate of goulash. Percy 
frowned, but Harry could have sworn Dumbledore 
had given him a very small wink. 

Meanwhile Fleur Delacour was criticizing the 
Hogwarts decorations to Roger Davies. 

“Zis is nothing,” she said dismissively, looking around 
at the sparkling walls of the Great Hall. “At ze Palace 
of Beauxbatons, we ’ave ice sculptures all around ze 
dining chamber at Chreestmas. Zey do not melt, of 
course . . . zey are like ’uge statues of diamond, 
glittering around ze place. And ze food is seemply 
superb. And we ’ave choirs of wood nymphs, ’oo 
serenade us as we eat. We ’ave none of zis ugly armor 
in ze ’alls, and eef a poltergeist ever entaired into 
Beauxbatons, ’e would be expelled like zat.” She 
slapped her hand onto the table impatiently. 

Roger Davies was watching her talk with a very dazed 
look on his face, and he kept missing his mouth with 
his fork. Harry had the impression that Davies was 
too busy staring at Fleur to take in a word she was 
saying. 

“Absolutely right,” he said quickly, slapping his own 
hand down on the table in imitation of Fleur. “Like 
that. Yeah.” 

Harry looked around the Hall. Hagrid was sitting at 
one of the other staff tables; he was back in his 
horrible hairy brown suit and gazing up at the top 
table. Harry saw him give a small wave, and looking 



Page | 461 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




around, saw Madame Maxime return it, her opals 
glittering in the candlelight. 

Hermione was now teaching Krum to say her name 
properly; he kept calling her “Hermy-own.” 

“Her-my-oh-nee,” she said slowly and clearly. 

“Herm-own-ninny.” 

“Close enough,” she said, catching Harry’s eye and 
grinning. 

When all the food had been consumed, Dumbledore 
stood up and asked the students to do the same. 

Then, with a wave of his wand, all the tables zoomed 
back along the walls leaving the floor clear, and then 
he conjured a raised platform into existence along the 
right wall. A set of drums, several guitars, a lute, a 
cello, and some bagpipes were set upon it. 

The Weird Sisters now trooped up onto the stage to 
wildly enthusiastic applause; they were all extremely 
hairy and dressed in black robes that had been 
artfully ripped and torn. They picked up their 
instruments, and Harry, who had been so interested 
in watching them that he had almost forgotten what 
was coming, suddenly realized that the lanterns on all 
the other tables had gone out, and that the other 
champions and their partners were standing up. 

“Come on!” Parvati hissed. “We’re supposed to dance!” 

Harry tripped over his dress robes as he stood up. 

The Weird Sisters struck up a slow, mournful tune; 
Harry walked onto the brightly lit dance floor, 
carefully avoiding catching anyone’s eye (he could see 
Seamus and Dean waving at him and sniggering), and 
next moment, Parvati had seized his hands, placed 
Page | 462 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




one around her waist, and was holding the other 
tightly in hers. 

It wasn’t as bad as it could have been, Harry thought, 
revolving slowly on the spot (Parvati was steering) . He 
kept his eyes fixed over the heads of the watching 
people, and very soon many of them too had come 
onto the dance floor, so that the champions were no 
longer the center of attention. Neville and Ginny were 
dancing nearby — he could see Ginny wincing 
frequently as Neville trod on her feet — and 
Dumbledore was waltzing with Madame Maxime. He 
was so dwarfed by her that the top of his pointed hat 
barely tickled her chin; however, she moved very 
gracefully for a woman so large. Mad-Eye Moody was 
doing an extremely ungainly two-step with Professor 
Sinistra, who was nervously avoiding his wooden leg. 

“Nice socks, Potter,” Moody growled as he passed, his 
magical eye staring through Harry’s robes. 

“Oh — yeah, Dobby the house-elf knitted them for 
me,” said Harry, grinning. 

“He is so creepy\” Parvati whispered as Moody 
clunked away. “I don’t think that eye should be 
allowed]” 

Harry heard the final, quavering note from the 
bagpipe with relief. The Weird Sisters stopped playing, 
applause filled the hall once more, and Harry let go of 
Parvati at once. 

“Let’s sit down, shall we?” 

“Oh — but — this is a really good one!” Parvati said 
as the Weird Sisters struck up a new song, which was 
much faster. 



Page | 463 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“No, I don’t like it,” Harry lied, and he led her away 
from the dance floor, past Fred and Angelina, who 
were dancing so exhuberantly that people around 
them were backing away in fear of injury, and over to 
the table where Ron and Padma were sitting. 

“How’s it going?” Harry asked Ron, sitting down and 
opening a bottle of butterbeer. 

Ron didn’t answer. He was glaring at Hermione and 
Krum, who were dancing nearby. Padma was sitting 
with her arms and legs crossed, one foot jiggling in 
time to the music. Every now and then she threw a 
disgruntled look at Ron, who was completely ignoring 
her. Parvati sat down on Harry’s other side, crossed 
her arms and legs too, and within minutes was asked 
to dance by a boy from Beauxbatons. 

“You don’t mind, do you, Harry?” Parvati said. 

“What?” said Harry, who was now watching Cho and 
Cedric. 

“Oh never mind,” snapped Parvati, and she went off 
with the boy from Beauxbatons. When the song 
ended, she did not return. 

Hermione came over and sat down in Parvati’s empty 
chair. She was a bit pink in the face from dancing. 

“Hi,” said Harry. Ron didn’t say anything. 

“It’s hot, isn’t it?” said Hermione, fanning herself with 
her hand. “Viktor’s just gone to get some drinks.” 

Ron gave her a withering look. “Viktor?” he said. 
“Hasn’t he asked you to call him Vicky yet?” 



Page | 464 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione looked at him in surprise. “What’s up with 
you?” she said. 

“If you don’t know,” said Ron scathingly, “I’m not 
going to tell you.” 

Hermione stared at him, then at Harry, who 
shrugged. 

“Ron, what — ?” 

“He’s from Durmstrang!” spat Ron. “He’s competing 
against Harry! Against Hogwarts! You — you’re — ” 
Ron was obviously casting around for words strong 
enough to describe Hermione ’s crime, “ fraternizing 
with the enemy, that’s what you’re doing!” 

Hermione’s mouth fell open. 

“Don’t be so stupid!” she said after a moment. “The 
enemy\ Honestly — who was the one who was all 
excited when they saw him arrive? Who was the one 
who wanted his autograph? Who’s got a model of him 
up in their dormitory?” 

Ron chose to ignore this. “I s’pose he asked you to 
come with him while you were both in the library?” 

“Yes, he did,” said Hermione, the pink patches on her 
cheeks glowing more brightly. “So what?” 

“What happened — trying to get him to join spew, 
were you?” 

“No, I wasn’t! If you really want to know, he — he said 
he’d been coming up to the library every day to try 
and talk to me, but he hadn’t been able to pluck up 
the courage!” 



Page | 465 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione said this very quickly, and blushed so 
deeply that she was the same color as Parvati’s robes. 

“Yeah, well — that’s his story,” said Ron nastily. 

“And what’s that supposed to mean?” 

“Obvious, isn’t it? He’s Karkaroff’s student, isn’t he? 
He knows who you hang around with. ... He’s just 
trying to get closer to Harry — get inside information 
on him — or get near enough to jinx him — ” 

Hermione looked as though Ron had slapped her. 
When she spoke, her voice quivered. 

“For your information, he hasn’t asked me one single 
thing about Harry, not one — ” 

Ron changed tack at the speed of light. 

“Then he’s hoping you’ll help him find out what his 
egg means! I suppose you’ve been putting your heads 
together during those cozy little library sessions — ” 

“I’d never help him work out that egg!” said Hermione, 
looking outraged. “Never. How could you say 
something like that — I want Harry to win the 
tournament, Harry knows that, don’t you, Harry?” 

“You’ve got a funny way of showing it,” sneered Ron. 

“This whole tournament’s supposed to be about 
getting to know foreign wizards and making friends 
with them!” said Hermione hotly. 

“No it isn’t!” shouted Ron. “It’s about winning!” 

People were starting to stare at them. 



Page | 466 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Ron,” said Harry quietly, “I haven’t got a problem 
with Hermione coming with Krum — ” 

But Ron ignored Harry too. 

“Why don’t you go and find Vicky, he’ll be wondering 
where you are,” said Ron. 

“Don’t call him Vickyl” 

Hermione jumped to her feet and stormed off across 
the dance floor, disappearing into the crowd. Ron 
watched her go with a mixture of anger and 
satisfaction on his face. 

“Are you going to ask me to dance at all?” Padma 
asked him. 

“No,” said Ron, still glaring after Hermione. 

“Fine,” snapped Padma, and she got up and went to 
join Parvati and the Beauxbatons boy, who conjured 
up one of his friends to join them so fast that Harry 
could have sworn he had zoomed him there by a 
Summoning Charm. 

“Vare is Herm-own-ninny?” said a voice. 

Krum had just arrived at their table clutching two 
butterbeers. 

“No idea,” said Ron mulishly, looking up at him. “Lost 
her, have you?” 

Krum was looking surly again. 

“Veil, if you see her, tell her I haff drinks,” he said, 
and he slouched off. 



Page | 467 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Made friends with Viktor Krum, have you, Ron?” 



Percy had bustled over, rubbing his hands together 
and looking extremely pompous. “Excellent! That’s 
the whole point, you know — international magical 
cooperation!” 

To Harry’s displeasure, Percy now took Padma’s 
vacated seat. The top table was now empty; Professor 
Dumbledore was dancing with Professor Sprout, Ludo 
Bagman with Professor McGonagall; Madame Maxime 
and Hagrid were cutting a wide path around the 
dance floor as they waltzed through the students, and 
Karkaroff was nowhere to be seen. When the next 
song ended, everybody applauded once more, and 
Harry saw Ludo Bagman kiss Professor McGonagall’s 
hand and make his way back through the crowds, at 
which point Fred and George accosted him. 

“What do they think they’re doing, annoying senior 
Ministry members?” Percy hissed, watching Fred and 
George suspiciously. “No respect ...” 

Ludo Bagman shook off Fred and George fairly 
quickly, however, and, spotting Harry, waved and 
came over to their table. 

“I hope my brothers weren’t bothering you, Mr. 
Bagman?” said Percy at once. 

“What? Oh not at all, not at all!” said Bagman. “No, 
they were just telling me a bit more about those fake 
wands of theirs. Wondering if I could advise them on 
the marketing. I’ve promised to put them in touch 
with a couple of contacts of mine at Zonko’s Joke 
Shop. ...” 

Percy didn’t look happy about this at all, and Harry 
was prepared to bet he would be rushing to tell Mrs. 

Page | 468 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Weasley about this the moment he got home. 
Apparently Fred and George’s plans had grown even 
more ambitious lately, if they were hoping to sell to 
the public. Bagman opened his mouth to ask Harry 
something, but Percy diverted him. 

“How do you feel the tournament’s going, Mr. 

Bagman? Our department’s quite satisfied — the 
hitch with the Goblet of Fire” — he glanced at Harry 
— “was a little unfortunate, of course, but it seems to 
have gone very smoothly since, don’t you think?” 

“Oh yes,” Bagman said cheerfully, “it’s all been 
enormous fun. How’s old Barty doing? Shame he 
couldn’t come.” 

“Oh I’m sure Mr. Crouch will be up and about in no 
time,” said Percy importantly, “but in the meantime, 
I’m more than willing to take up the slack. Of course, 
it’s not all attending balls” — he laughed airily — “oh 
no, I’ve had to deal with all sorts of things that have 
cropped up in his absence — you heard Ali Bashir 
was caught smuggling a consignment of flying carpets 
into the country? And then we’ve been trying to 
persuade the Transylvanians to sign the International 
Ban on Dueling. I’ve got a meeting with their Head of 
Magical Cooperation in the new year — ” 

“Let’s go for a walk,” Ron muttered to Harry, “get 
away from Percy. ...” 

Pretending they wanted more drinks, Harry and Ron 
left the table, edged around the dance floor, and 
slipped out into the entrance hall. The front doors 
stood open, and the fluttering fairy lights in the rose 
garden winked and twinkled as they went down the 
front steps, where they found themselves surrounded 
by bushes; winding, ornamental paths; and large 
stone statues. Harry could hear splashing water, 

Page | 469 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




which sounded like a fountain. Here and there, people 
were sitting on carved benches. He and Ron set off 
along one of the winding paths through the 
rosebushes, but they had gone only a short way when 
they heard an unpleasantly familiar voice. 

"... don’t see what there is to fuss about, Igor.” 

“Severus, you cannot pretend this isn’t happening!” 
Karkaroff’s voice sounded anxious and hushed, as 
though keen not to be overheard. “It’s been getting 
clearer and clearer for months. I am becoming 
seriously concerned, I can’t deny it — ” 

“Then flee,” said Snape’s voice curtly. “Flee — I will 
make your excuses. I, however, am remaining at 
Hogwarts.” 

Snape and Karkaroff came around the corner. Snape 
had his wand out and was blasting rosebushes apart, 
his expression most ill-natured. Squeals issued from 
many of the bushes, and dark shapes emerged from 
them. 

“Ten points from Ravenclaw, Fawcett!” Snape snarled 
as a girl ran past him. “And ten points from Hufflepuff 
too, Stebbins!” as a boy went rushing after her. “And 
what are you two doing?” he added, catching sight of 
Harry and Ron on the path ahead. Karkaroff, Harry 
saw, looked slightly discomposed to see them 
standing there. His hand went nervously to his 
goatee, and he began winding it around his finger. 

“We’re walking,” Ron told Snape shortly. “Not against 
the law, is it?” 

“Keep walking, then!” Snape snarled, and he brushed 
past them, his long black cloak billowing out behind 



Page | 470 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




him. Karkaroff hurried away after Snape. Harry and 
Ron continued down the path. 

“What’s got Karkaroff all worried?” Ron muttered. 

“And since when have he and Snape been on first- 
name terms?” said Harry slowly. 

They had reached a large stone reindeer now, over 
which they could see the sparkling jets of a tall 
fountain. The shadowy outlines of two enormous 
people were visible on a stone bench, watching the 
water in the moonlight. And then Harry heard Hagrid 
speak. 

“Momen’ I saw yeh, I knew,” he was saying, in an 
oddly husky voice. 

Harry and Ron froze. This didn’t sound like the sort of 
scene they ought to walk in on, somehow. . . . Harry 
looked around, back up the path, and saw Fleur 
Delacour and Roger Davies standing half-concealed in 
a rosebush nearby. He tapped Ron on the shoulder 
and jerked his head toward them, meaning that they 
could easily sneak off that way without being noticed 
(Fleur and Davies looked very busy to Harry), but 
Ron, eyes widening in horror at the sight of Fleur, 
shook his head vigorously, and pulled Harry deeper 
into the shadows behind the reindeer. 

“What did you know, ’Agrid?” said Madame Maxime, a 
purr in her low voice. 

Harry definitely didn’t want to listen to this; he knew 
Hagrid would hate to be overheard in a situation like 
this (he certainly would have) — if it had been 
possible he would have put his fingers in his ears and 
hummed loudly, but that wasn’t really an option. 
Instead he tried to interest himself in a beetle 
Page | 471 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




crawling along the stone reindeer’s back, but the 
beetle just wasn’t interesting enough to block out 
Hagrid’s next words. 

“I jus’ knew ... knew you were like me. ... Was it yer 
mother or yer father?” 

“I — I don’t know what you mean, ’Agrid. ...” 

“It was my mother,” said Hagrid quietly. “She was one 
o’ the las’ ones in Britain. ’Course, I can’ remember 
her too well ... she left, see. When I was abou’ three. 
She wasn’ really the maternal sort. Well ... it’s not in 
their natures, is it? Dunno what happened to her ... 
might be dead fer all I know. ...” 

Madame Maxime didn’t say anything. And Harry, in 
spite of himself, took his eyes off the beetle and 
looked over the top of the reindeer’s antlers, listening. 

. . . He had never heard Hagrid talk about his 
childhood before. 

“Me dad was broken-hearted when she wen’. Tiny 
little bloke, my dad was. By the time I was six I could 
lift him up an’ put him on top o’ the dresser if he 
annoyed me. Used ter make him laugh. ...” Hagrid’s 
deep voice broke. Madame Maxime was listening, 
motionless, apparently staring at the silvery fountain. 
“Dad raised me ... but he died, o’ course, jus’ after I 
started school. Sorta had ter make me own way after 
that. Dumbledore was a real help, mind. Very kind ter 
me, he was. ...” 

Hagrid pulled out a large spotted silk handkerchief 
and blew his nose heavily. 

“So ... anyway ... enough abou’ me. What about you? 
Which side you got it on?” 



Page | 472 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




But Madame Maxime had suddenly got to her feet. 

“It is chilly,” she said — but whatever the weather 
was doing, it was nowhere near as cold as her voice. 

“I think I will go in now.” 

“Eh?” said Hagrid blankly. “No, don’ go! I’ve — I’ve 
never met another one before!” 

“Anuzzer what, precisely?” said Madame Maxime, her 
tone icy. 

Harry could have told Hagrid it was best not to 
answer; he stood there in the shadows gritting his 
teeth, hoping against hope he wouldn’t — but it was 
no good. 

“Another half-giant, o’ course!” said Hagrid. 

“ ’Ow dare you!” shrieked Madame Maxime. Her voice 
exploded through the peaceful night air like a 
foghorn; behind him, Harry heard Fleur and Roger fall 
out of their rosebush. “I ’ave nevair been more 
insulted in my life! ’Alf-giant? Moi? I ’ave — I ’ave big 
bones!” 

She stormed away; great multicolored swarms of 
fairies rose into the air as she passed, angrily pushing 
aside bushes. Hagrid was still sitting on the bench, 
staring after her. It was much too dark to make out 
his expression. Then, after about a minute, he stood 
up and strode away, not back to the castle, but off 
out into the dark grounds in the direction of his 
cabin. 

“C’mon,” Harry said, very quietly to Ron. “Let’s go. ...” 
But Ron didn’t move. 



Page | 473 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“What’s up?” said Harry, looking at him. 

Ron looked around at Harry, his expression very 
serious indeed. 

“Did you know?” he whispered. “About Hagrid being 
half-giant?” 

“No,” Harry said, shrugging. “So what?” 

He knew immediately, from the look Ron was giving 
him, that he was once again revealing his ignorance 
of the wizarding world. Brought up by the Dursleys, 
there were many things that wizards took for granted 
that were revelations to Harry, but these surprises 
had become fewer with each successive year. Now, 
however, he could tell that most wizards would not 
have said “So what?” upon finding out that one of 
their friends had a giantess for a mother. 

“I’ll explain inside,” said Ron quietly, “c’mon. ...” 

Fleur and Roger Davies had disappeared, probably 
into a more private clump of bushes. Harry and Ron 
returned to the Great Hall. Parvati and Padma were 
now sitting at a distant table with a whole crowd of 
Beauxbatons boys, and Hermione was once more 
dancing with Krum. Harry and Ron sat down at a 
table far removed from the dance floor. 

“So?” Harry prompted Ron. “What’s the problem with 
giants?” 

“Well, they’re ... they’re ...” Ron struggled for words. 
"... not very nice,” he finished lamely. 

“Who cares?” Harry said. “There’s nothing wrong with 
Hagrid!” 



Page | 474 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I know there isn’t, but ... blimey, no wonder he keeps 
it quiet,” Ron said, shaking his head. “I always 
thought he’d got in the way of a bad Engorgement 
Charm when he was a kid or something. Didn’t like to 
mention it. ...” 

“But what’s it matter if his mother was a giantess?” 
said Harry. 

“Well ... no one who knows him will care, ’cos they’ll 
know he’s not dangerous,” said Ron slowly. “But ... 
Harry, they’re just vicious, giants. It’s like Hagrid 
said, it’s in their natures, they’re like trolls ... they 
just like killing, everyone knows that. There aren’t 
any left in Britain now, though.” 

“What happened to them?” 

“Well, they were dying out anyway, and then loads got 
themselves killed by Aurors. There ’re supposed to be 
giants abroad, though. ... They hide out in mountains 
mostly. ...” 

“I don’t know who Maxime thinks she’s kidding,” 

Harry said, watching Madame Maxime sitting alone at 
the judges’ table, looking very somber. “If Hagrid ’s 
half-giant, she definitely is. Big bones ... the only 
thing that’s got bigger bones than her is a dinosaur.” 

Harry and Ron spent the rest of the ball discussing 
giants in their corner, neither of them having any 
inclination to dance. Harry tried not to watch Cho 
and Cedric too much; it gave him a strong desire to 
kick something. 

When the Weird Sisters finished playing at midnight, 
everyone gave them a last, loud round of applause 
and started to wend their way into the entrance hall. 
Many people were expressing the wish that the ball 

Page | 475 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




could have gone on longer, but Harry was perfectly 
happy to be going to bed; as far as he was concerned, 
the evening hadn’t been much fun. 

Out in the entrance hall, Harry and Ron saw 
Hermione saying good night to Krum before he went 
back to the Durmstrang ship. She gave Ron a very 
cold look and swept past him up the marble staircase 
without speaking. Harry and Ron followed her, but 
halfway up the staircase Harry heard someone calling 
him. 

“Hey — Harry!” 

It was Cedric Diggory. Harry could see Cho waiting for 
him in the entrance hall below. 

“Yeah?” said Harry coldly as Cedric ran up the stairs 
toward him. 

Cedric looked as though he didn’t want to say 
whatever it was in front of Ron, who shrugged, 
looking bad-tempered, and continued to climb the 
stairs. 

“Listen ...” Cedric lowered his voice as Ron 
disappeared. “I owe you one for telling me about the 
dragons. You know that golden egg? Does yours wail 
when you open it?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry. 

“Well ... take a bath, okay?” 

“What?” 

“Take a bath, and — er — take the egg with you, and 
— er — just mull things over in the hot water. It’ll 
help you think. ... Trust me.” 

Page | 476 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry stared at him. 

“Tell you what,” Cedric said, “use the prefects’ 
bathroom. Fourth door to the left of that statue of 
Boris the Bewildered on the fifth floor. Password’s 
‘pine fresh. ’ Gotta go . . . want to say good night — ” 

He grinned at Harry again and hurried back down the 
stairs to Cho. 

Harry walked back to Gryffindor Tower alone. That 
had been extremely strange advice. Why would a bath 
help him to work out what the wailing egg meant? 
Was Cedric pulling his leg? Was he trying to make 
Harry look like a fool, so Cho would like him even 
more by comparison? 

The Fat Lady and her friend Vi were snoozing in the 
picture over the portrait hole. Harry had to yell “Fairy 
lights!” before he woke them up, and when he did, 
they were extremely irritated. He climbed into the 
common room and found Ron and Hermione having a 
blazing row. Standing ten feet apart, they were 
bellowing at each other, each scarlet in the face. 

“Well, if you don’t like it, you know what the solution 
is, don’t you?” yelled Hermione; her hair was coming 
down out of its elegant bun now, and her face was 
screwed up in anger. 

“Oh yeah?” Ron yelled back. “What’s that?” 

“Next time there’s a ball, ask me before someone else 
does, and not as a last resort!” 

Ron mouthed soundlessly like a goldfish out of water 
as Hermione turned on her heel and stormed up the 
girls’ staircase to bed. Ron turned to look at Harry. 



Page | 477 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Well,” he sputtered, looking thunderstruck, “well — 
that just proves — completely missed the point — ” 

Harry didn’t say anything. He liked being back on 
speaking terms with Ron too much to speak his mind 
right now — but he somehow thought that Hermione 
had gotten the point much better than Ron had. 



Page | 478 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






RITA SKEBTER’S SCOOP 

Everybody got up late on Boxing Day. The Gryffindor 
common room was much quieter than it had been 
lately, many yawns punctuating the lazy 
conversations. Hermione’s hair was bushy again; she 
confessed to Harry that she had used liberal amounts 
of Sleekeazy’s Hair Potion on it for the ball, “but it’s 
way too much bother to do every day,” she said 
matter-of-factly, scratching a purring Crookshanks 
behind the ears. 

Ron and Hermione seemed to have reached an 
unspoken agreement not to discuss their argument. 
They were being quite friendly to each other, though 
oddly formal. Ron and Harry wasted no time in telling 
Hermione about the conversation they had overheard 
between Madame Maxime and Hagrid, but Hermione 
didn’t seem to find the news that Hagrid was a half- 
giant nearly as shocking as Ron did. 

“Well, I thought he must be,” she said, shrugging. “I 
knew he couldn’t be pure giant because they’re about 
twenty feet tall. But honestly, all this hysteria about 

Page | 479 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




giants. They can’t all be horrible. ... It’s the same sort 
of prejudice that people have toward werewolves. ... 

It’s just bigotry, isn’t it?” 

Ron looked as though he would have liked to reply 
scathingly, but perhaps he didn’t want another row, 
because he contented himself with shaking his head 
disbelievingly while Hermione wasn’t looking. 

It was time now to think of the homework they had 
neglected during the first week of the holidays. 
Everybody seemed to be feeling rather flat now that 
Christmas was over — everybody except Harry, that 
is, who was starting (once again) to feel slightly 
nervous. 

The trouble was that February the twenty-fourth 
looked a lot closer from this side of Christmas, and he 
still hadn’t done anything about working out the clue 
inside the golden egg. He therefore started taking the 
egg out of his trunk every time he went up to the 
dormitory, opening it, and listening intently, hoping 
that this time it would make some sense. He strained 
to think what the sound reminded him of, apart from 
thirty musical saws, but he had never heard anything 
else like it. He closed the egg, shook it vigorously, and 
opened it again to see if the sound had changed, but 
it hadn’t. He tried asking the egg questions, shouting 
over all the wailing, but nothing happened. He even 
threw the egg across the room — though he hadn’t 
really expected that to help. 

Harry had not forgotten the hint that Cedric had 
given him, but his less-than-friendly feelings toward 
Cedric just now meant that he was keen not to take 
his help if he could avoid it. In any case, it seemed to 
him that if Cedric had really wanted to give Harry a 
hand, he would have been a lot more explicit. He, 
Harry, had told Cedric exactly what was coming in 
Page | 480 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




the first task — and Cedric’s idea of a fair exchange 
had been to tell Harry to take a bath. Well, he didn’t 
need that sort of rubbishy help — not from someone 
who kept walking down corridors hand in hand with 
Cho, anyway. And so the first day of the new term 
arrived, and Harry set off to lessons, weighed down 
with books, parchment, and quills as usual, but also 
with the lurking worry of the egg heavy in his 
stomach, as though he were carrying that around 
with him too. 

Snow was still thick upon the grounds, and the 
greenhouse windows were covered in condensation so 
thick that they couldn’t see out of them in Herbology. 
Nobody was looking forward to Care of Magical 
Creatures much in this weather, though as Ron said, 
the skrewts would probably warm them up nicely, 
either by chasing them, or blasting off so forcefully 
that Hagrid’s cabin would catch fire. 

When they arrived at Hagrid’s cabin, however, they 
found an elderly witch with closely cropped gray hair 
and a very prominent chin standing before his front 
door. 

“Hurry up, now, the bell rang five minutes ago,” she 
barked at them as they struggled toward her through 
the snow. 

“Who ’re you?” said Ron, staring at her. “Where’s 
Hagrid?” 

“My name is Professor Grubbly-Plank,” she said 
briskly. “I am your temporary Care of Magical 
Creatures teacher.” 

“Where’s Hagrid?” Harry repeated loudly. 



Page | 481 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“He is indisposed,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank 
shortly. 

Soft and unpleasant laughter reached Harry’s ears. 

He turned; Draco Malfoy and the rest of the 
Slytherins were joining the class. All of them looked 
gleeful, and none of them looked surprised to see 
Professor Grubbly-Plank. 

“This way, please,” said Professor Grubbly-Plank, and 
she strode off around the paddock where the 
Beauxbatons horses were shivering. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione followed her, looking back over their 
shoulders at Hagrid’s cabin. All the curtains were 
closed. Was Hagrid in there, alone and ill? 

“What’s wrong with Hagrid?” Harry said, hurrying to 
catch up with Professor Grubbly-Plank. 

“Never you mind,” she said as though she thought he 
was being nosy. 

“I do mind, though,” said Harry hotly. “What’s up with 
him?” 

Professor Grubbly-Plank acted as though she couldn’t 
hear him. She led them past the paddock where the 
huge Beauxbatons horses were standing, huddled 
against the cold, and toward a tree on the edge of the 
forest, where a large and beautiful unicorn was 
tethered. 

Many of the girls “ooooohed!” at the sight of the 
unicorn. 

“Oh it’s so beautiful!” whispered Lavender Brown. 
“How did she get it? They’re supposed to be really 
hard to catch!” 



Page | 482 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




The unicorn was so brightly white it made the snow 
all around look gray. It was pawing the ground 
nervously with its golden hooves and throwing back 
its horned head. 

“Boys keep back!” barked Professor Grubbly-Plank, 
throwing out an arm and catching Harry hard in the 
chest. “They prefer the woman’s touch, unicorns. 
Girls to the front, and approach with care, come on, 
easy does it. ...” 

She and the girls walked slowly forward toward the 
unicorn, leaving the boys standing near the paddock 
fence, watching. The moment Professor Grubbly- 
Plank was out of earshot, Harry turned to Ron. 

“What d’you reckon’s wrong with him? You don’t 
think a skrewt — ?” 

“Oh he hasn’t been attacked, Potter, if that’s what 
you’re thinking,” said Malfoy softly. “No, he’s just too 
ashamed to show his big, ugly face.” 

“What d’you mean?” said Harry sharply. 

Malfoy put his hand inside the pocket of his robes 
and pulled out a folded page of newsprint. 

“There you go,” he said. “Hate to break it to you, 
Potter. ...” 

He smirked as Harry snatched the page, unfolded it, 
and read it, with Ron, Seamus, Dean, and Neville 
looking over his shoulder. It was an article topped 
with a picture of Hagrid looking extremely shifty. 

DUMBLEDORE’S GIANT MISTAKE 



Page | 483 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Albus Dumbledore, eccentric Headmaster of Hogwarts 
School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, has never been 
afraid to make controversial staff appointments, writes 
Rita Skeeter, Special Correspondent. In September of 
this year, he hired Alastor “Mad-Eye” Moody, the 
notoriously jinx-happy ex-Auror, to teach Defense 
Against the Dark Arts, a decision that caused many 
raised eyebrows at the Ministry of Magic, given 
Moody’s well-known habit of attacking anybody who 
makes a sudden movement in his presence. Mad-Eye 
Moody, however, looks responsible and kindly when 
set beside the part-human Dumbledore employs to 
teach Care of Magical Creatures. 

Rubeus Hagrid, who admits to being expelled from 
Hogwarts in his third year, has enjoyed the position of 
gamekeeper at the school ever since, a job secured for 
him by Dumbledore. Last year, however, Hagrid used 
his mysterious influence over the headmaster to 
secure the additional post of Care of Magical 
Creatures teacher, over the heads of many better- 
qualified candidates. 

An alarmingly large and ferocious-looking man, 

Hagrid has been using his newfound authority to 
terrify the students in his care with a succession of 
horrific creatures. While Dumbledore turns a blind 
eye, Hagrid has maimed several pupils during a series 
of lessons that many admit to being “very 
frightening.” 

“I was attacked by a hippogriff, and my friend Vincent 
Crabbe got a bad bite off a flobberworm,” says Draco 
Malfoy, a fourth-year student. “We all hate Hagrid, 
but we’re just too scared to say anything.” 

Hagrid has no intention of ceasing his campaign of 
intimidation, however. In conversation with a Daily 
Prophet reporter last month, he admitted breeding 

Page | 484 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




creatures he has dubbed “Blast-Ended Skrewts, ” 
highly dangerous crosses between manticores and fire- 
crabs. The creation of new breeds of magical creature 
is, of course, an activity usually closely observed by 
the Department for the Regulation and Control of 
Magical Creatures. Hagrid, however, considers himself 
to be above such petty restrictions. 

“I was just having some fun,” he says, before hastily 
changing the subject. 

As if this were not enough, the Daily Prophet has now 
unearthed evidence that Hagrid is not — as he has 
always pretended — a pure-blood wizard. He is not, in 
fact, even pure human. His mother, we can exclusively 
reveal, is none other than the giantess Fridwulfa, 
whose whereabouts are currently unknown. 

Bloodthirsty and brutal, the giants brought 
themselves to the point of extinction by warring 
amongst themselves during the last century. The 
handful that remained joined the ranks of He-Who- 
Must-Not-Be-Named, and were responsible for some 
of the worst mass Muggle killings of his reign of 
terror. 

While many of the giants who served He-Who-Must- 
Not-Be-Named were killed by Aurors working against 
the Dark Side, Fridwulfa was not among them. It is 
possible she escaped to one of the giant communities 
still existing in foreign mountain ranges. If his antics 
during Care of Magical Creatures lessons are any 
guide, however, Fridwulfa’s son appears to have 
inherited her brutal nature. 

In a bizarre twist, Hagrid is reputed to have developed 
a close friendship with the boy who brought around 
You-Know- Who’s fall from power — thereby driving 
Hagrid ’s own mother, like the rest of You-Know- Who’s 

Page | 485 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




supporters, into hiding. Perhaps Harry Potter is 
unaware of the unpleasant truth about his large 
friend — but Albus Dumbledore surely has a duty to 
ensure that Harry Potter, along with his fellow 
students, is warned about the dangers of associating 
with part-giants. 



Harry finished reading and looked up at Ron, whose 
mouth was hanging open. 

“How did she find out?” he whispered. 

But that wasn’t what was bothering Harry. 

“What d’you mean, “we all hate Hagrid’?” Harry spat 
at Malfoy. “What’s this rubbish about him” — he 
pointed at Crabbe — “getting a bad bite off a 
flobberworm? They haven’t even got teeth!” 

Crabbe was sniggering, apparently very pleased with 
himself. 

“Well, I think this should put an end to the oaf’s 
teaching career,” said Malfoy, his eyes glinting. “Half- 
giant ... and there was me thinking he’d just 
swallowed a bottle of Skele-Gro when he was young. 

... None of the mummies and daddies are going to like 
this at all. ... They’ll be worried he’ll eat their kids, ha, 
ha. ...” 

“You — ” 

“Are you paying attention over there?” 

Professor Grubbly-Plank’s voice carried over to the 
boys; the girls were all clustered around the unicorn 
now, stroking it. Harry was so angry that the Daily 

Page |486 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Prophet article shook in his hands as he turned to 
stare unseeingly at the unicorn, whose many magical 
properties Professor Grubbly-Plank was now 
enumerating in a loud voice, so that the boys could 
hear too. 

“I hope she stays, that woman!” said Parvati Patil 
when the lesson had ended and they were all heading 
back to the castle for lunch. “That’s more what I 
thought Care of Magical Creatures would be like . . . 
proper creatures like unicorns, not monsters. ...” 

“What about Hagrid?” Harry said angrily as they went 
up the steps. 

“What about him?” said Parvati in a hard voice. “He 
can still be gamekeeper, can’t he?” 

Parvati had been very cool toward Harry since the 
ball. He supposed that he ought to have paid her a bit 
more attention, but she seemed to have had a good 
time all the same. She was certainly telling anybody 
who would listen that she had made arrangements to 
meet the boy from Beauxbatons in Hogsmeade on the 
next weekend trip. 

“That was a really good lesson,” said Hermione as 
they entered the Great Hall. “I didn’t know half the 
things Professor Grubbly-Plank told us about uni — ” 

“Look at this!” Harry snarled, and he shoved the Daily 
Prophet article under Hermione ’s nose. 

Hermione ’s mouth fell open as she read. Her reaction 
was exactly the same as Ron’s. 

“How did that horrible Skeeter woman find out? You 
don’t think Hagrid told her?” 



Page | 487 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Harry, leading the way over to the 
Gryffindor table and throwing himself into a chair, 
furious. “He never even told us, did he? I reckon she 
was so mad he wouldn’t give her loads of horrible 
stuff about me, she went ferreting around to get him 
back.” 

“Maybe she heard him telling Madame Maxime at the 
ball,” said Hermione quietly. 

“We’d have seen her in the garden!” said Ron. 
“Anyway, she’s not supposed to come into school 
anymore, Hagrid said Dumbledore banned her. ...” 

“Maybe she’s got an Invisibility Cloak,” said Harry, 
ladling chicken casserole onto his plate and splashing 
it everywhere in his anger. “Sort of thing she’d do, 
isn’t it, hide in bushes listening to people.” 

“Like you and Ron did, you mean,” said Hermione. 

“We weren’t trying to hear him!” said Ron indignantly. 
“We didn’t have any choice! The stupid prat, talking 
about his giantess mother where anyone could have 
heard him!” 

“We’ve got to go and see him,” said Harry. “This 
evening, after Divination. Tell him we want him back 
... you do want him back?” he shot at Hermione. 

“I — well, I’m not going to pretend it didn’t make a 
nice change, having a proper Care of Magical 
Creatures lesson for once — but I do want Hagrid 
back, of course I do!” Hermione added hastily, 
quailing under Harry’s furious stare. 

So that evening after dinner, the three of them left the 
castle once more and went down through the frozen 



Page | 488 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




grounds to Hagrid’s cabin. They knocked, and Fang’s 
booming barks answered. 

“Hagrid, it’s us!” Harry shouted, pounding on the 
door. “Open up! 

Hagrid didn’t answer. They could hear Fang 
scratching at the door, whining, but it didn’t open. 
They hammered on it for ten more minutes; Ron even 
went and banged on one of the windows, but there 
was no response. 

“What’s he avoiding us for?” Hermione said when they 
had finally given up and were walking back to the 
school. “He surely doesn’t think we’d care about him 
being half-giant?” 

But it seemed that Hagrid did care. They didn’t see a 
sign of him all week. He didn’t appear at the staff 
table at mealtimes, they didn’t see him going about 
his gamekeeper duties on the grounds, and Professor 
Grubbly-Plank continued to take the Care of Magical 
Creatures classes. Malfoy was gloating at every 
possible opportunity. 

“Missing your half-breed pal?” he kept whispering to 
Harry whenever there was a teacher around, so that 
he was safe from Harry’s retaliation. “Missing the 
elephant-man?” 

There was a Hogsmeade visit halfway through 
January. Hermione was very surprised that Harry 
was going to go. 

“I just thought you’d want to take advantage of the 
common room being quiet,” she said. “Really get to 
work on that egg.” 



Page | 489 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh I — I reckon I’ve got a pretty good idea what it’s 
about now,” Harry lied. 

“Have you really?” said Hermione, looking impressed. 
“Well done!” 

Harry’s insides gave a guilty squirm, but he ignored 
them. He still had five weeks to work out that egg 
clue, after all, and that was ages ... whereas if he 
went into Hogsmeade, he might run into Hagrid, and 
get a chance to persuade him to come back. 

He, Ron, and Hermione left the castle together on 
Saturday and set off through the cold, wet grounds 
toward the gates. As they passed the Durmstrang 
ship moored in the lake, they saw Viktor Krum 
emerge onto the deck, dressed in nothing but 
swimming trunks. He was very skinny indeed, but 
apparently a lot tougher than he looked, because he 
climbed up onto the side of the ship, stretched out his 
arms, and dived, right into the lake. 

“He’s mad!” said Harry, staring at Krum’s dark head 
as it bobbed out into the middle of the lake. “It must 
be freezing, it’s January!” 

“It’s a lot colder where he comes from,” said 
Hermione. “I suppose it feels quite warm to him.” 

“Yeah, but there’s still the giant squid,” said Ron. He 
didn’t sound anxious — if anything, he sounded 
hopeful. Hermione noticed his tone of voice and 
frowned. 

“He’s really nice, you know,” she said. “He’s not at all 
like you’d think, coming from Durmstrang. He likes it 
much better here, he told me.” 



Page | 490 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Ron said nothing. He hadn’t mentioned Viktor Krum 
since the ball, but Harry had found a miniature arm 
under his bed on Boxing Day, which had looked very 
much as though it had been snapped off a small 
model figure wearing Bulgarian Quidditch robes. 

Harry kept his eyes skinned for a sign of Hagrid all 
the way down the slushy High Street, and suggested a 
visit to the Three Broomsticks once he had 
ascertained that Hagrid was not in any of the shops. 

The pub was as crowded as ever, but one quick look 
around at all the tables told Harry that Hagrid wasn’t 
there. Heart sinking, he went up to the bar with Ron 
and Hermione, ordered three butter-beers from 
Madam Rosmerta, and thought gloomily that he 
might just as well have stayed behind and listened to 
the egg wailing after all. 

“Doesn’t he ever go into the office?” Hermione 
whispered suddenly. “Look!” 

She pointed into the mirror behind the bar, and Harry 
saw Ludo Bagman reflected there, sitting in a 
shadowy corner with a bunch of goblins. Bagman was 
talking very fast in a low voice to the goblins, all of 
whom had their arms crossed and were looking rather 
menacing. 

It was indeed odd, Harry thought, that Bagman was 
here at the Three Broomsticks on a weekend when 
there was no Triwizard event, and therefore no 
judging to be done. He watched Bagman in the 
mirror. He was looking strained again, quite as 
strained as he had that night in the forest before the 
Dark Mark had appeared. But just then Bagman 
glanced over at the bar, saw Harry, and stood up. 



Page | 491 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“In a moment, in a moment!” Harry heard him say 
brusquely to the goblins, and Bagman hurried 
through the pub toward Harry, his boyish grin back 
in place. 

“Harry!” he said. “How are you? Been hoping to run 
into you! Everything going all right?” 

“Fine, thanks,” said Harry. 

“Wonder if I could have a quick, private word, Harry?” 
said Bagman eagerly. “You couldn’t give us a 
moment, you two, could you?” 

“Er — okay,” said Ron, and he and Hermione went off 
to find a table. 

Bagman led Harry along the bar to the end furthest 
from Madam Rosmerta. 

“Well, I just thought I’d congratulate you again on 
your splendid performance against that Horntail, 
Harry,” said Bagman. “Really superb.” 

“Thanks,” said Harry, but he knew this couldn’t be all 
that Bagman wanted to say, because he could have 
congratulated Harry in front of Ron and Hermione. 
Bagman didn’t seem in any particular rush to spill 
the beans, though. Harry saw him glance into the 
mirror over the bar at the goblins, who were all 
watching him and Harry in silence through their 
dark, slanting eyes. 

“Absolute nightmare,” said Bagman to Harry in an 
undertone, noticing Harry watching the goblins too. 
“Their English isn’t too good ... it’s like being back 
with all the Bulgarians at the Quidditch World Cup ... 
but at least they used sign language another human 
could recognize. This lot keep gabbling in 
Page | 492 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Gobbledegook . . . and I only know one word of 
Gobbledegook. Bladvak. It means ‘pickax.’ I don’t like 
to use it in case they think I’m threatening them.” 

He gave a short, booming laugh. 

“What do they want?” Harry said, noticing how the 
goblins were still watching Bagman very closely. 

“Er — well ...” said Bagman, looking suddenly 
nervous. “They ... er ... they’re looking for Barry 
Crouch.” 

“Why are they looking for him here?” said Harry. “He’s 
at the Ministry in London, isn’t he?” 

“Er ... as a matter of fact, I’ve no idea where he is,” 
said Bagman. “He’s sort of ... stopped coming to work. 
Been absent for a couple of weeks now. Young Percy, 
his assistant, says he’s ill. Apparently he’s just been 
sending instructions in by owl. But would you mind 
not mentioning that to anyone, Harry? Because Rita 
Skeeter’s still poking around everywhere she can, and 
I’m willing to bet she’d work up Barty’s illness into 
something sinister. Probably say he’s gone missing 
like Bertha Jorkins.” 

“Have you heard anything about Bertha Jorkins?” 
Harry asked. 

“No,” said Bagman, looking strained again. “I’ve got 
people looking, of course ...” (About time, thought 
Harry) “and it’s all very strange. She definitely arrived 
in Albania, because she met her second cousin there. 
And then she left the cousin’s house to go south and 
see an aunt . . . and she seems to have vanished 
without trace en route. Blowed if I can see where 
she’s got to ... she doesn’t seem the type to elope, for 
instance ... but still. ... What are we doing, talking 
Page | 493 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




about goblins and Bertha Jorkins? I really wanted to 
ask you” — he lowered his voice — “how are you 
getting on with your golden egg?” 

“Er ... not bad,” Harry said untruthfully. 

Bagman seemed to know he wasn’t being honest. 

“Listen, Harry,” he said (still in a very low voice), “I 
feel very bad about all this . . . you were thrown into 
this tournament, you didn’t volunteer for it... and if 
...” (his voice was so quiet now, Harry had to lean 
closer to listen) “if I can help at all ... a prod in the 
right direction ... I’ve taken a liking to you ... the way 
you got past that dragon! ... well, just say the word.” 

Harry stared up into Bagman’s round, rosy face and 
his wide, baby-blue eyes. 

“We’re supposed to work out the clues alone, aren’t 
we?” he said, careful to keep his voice casual and not 
sound as though he was accusing the head of the 
Department of Magical Games and Sports of breaking 
the rules. 

“Well ... well, yes,” said Bagman impatiently, “but — 
come on, Harry — we all want a Hogwarts victory, 
don’t we?” 

“Have you offered Cedric help?” Harry said. 

The smallest of frowns creased Bagman’s smooth 
face. “No, I haven’t,” he said. “I — well, like I say, I’ve 
taken a liking to you. Just thought I’d offer ...” 

“Well, thanks,” said Harry, “but I think I’m nearly 
there with the egg . . . couple more days should crack 
it.” 



Page | 494 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




He wasn’t entirely sure why he was refusing 
Bagman’s help, except that Bagman was almost a 
stranger to him, and accepting his assistance would 
feel somehow much more like cheating than asking 
advice from Ron, Hermione, or Sirius. 

Bagman looked almost affronted, but couldn’t say 
much more as Fred and George turned up at that 
point. 

“Hello, Mr. Bagman,” said Fred brightly. “Can we buy 
you a drink?” 

“Er ... no,” said Bagman, with a last disappointed 
glance at Harry, “no, thank you, boys ...” 

Fred and George looked quite as disappointed as 
Bagman, who was surveying Harry as though he had 
let him down badly. 

“Well, I must dash,” he said. “Nice seeing you all. 

Good luck, Harry.” 

He hurried out of the pub. The goblins all slid off their 
chairs and exited after him. Harry went to rejoin Ron 
and Hermione. 

“What did he want?” Ron said, the moment Harry had 
sat down. 

“He offered to help me with the golden egg,” said 
Harry. 

“He shouldn’t be doing that!” said Hermione, looking 
very shocked. “He’s one of the judges! And anyway, 
you’ve already worked it out — haven’t you?” 

“Er ... nearly,” said Harry. 



Page | 495 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, I don’t think Dumbledore would like it if he 
knew Bagman was trying to persuade you to cheat!” 
said Hermione, still looking deeply disapproving. “I 
hope he’s trying to help Cedric as much!” 

“He’s not, I asked,” said Harry. 

“Who cares if Diggory’s getting help?” said Ron. Harry 
privately agreed. 

“Those goblins didn’t look very friendly,” said 
Hermione, sipping her butterbeer. “What were they 
doing here?” 

“Looking for Crouch, according to Bagman,” said 
Harry. “He’s still ill. Hasn’t been into work.” 

“Maybe Percy’s poisoning him,” said Ron. “Probably 
thinks if Crouch snuffs it he’ll be made head of the 
Department of International Magical Cooperation.” 

Hermione gave Ron a don’t -joke-about-things-like- 
that look, and said, “Funny, goblins looking for Mr. 
Crouch. . . . They’d normally deal with the Department 
for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures.” 

“Crouch can speak loads of different languages, 
though,” said Harry. “Maybe they need an 
interpreter.” 

“Worrying about poor ’ickle goblins, now, are you?” 
Ron asked Hermione. “Thinking of starting up 
S.P.U.G. or something? Society for the Protection of 
Ugly Goblins?” 

“Ha, ha, ha,” said Hermione sarcastically. “Goblins 
don’t need protection. Haven’t you been listening to 
what Professor Binns has been telling us about goblin 
rebellions?” 

Page | 496 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Harry and Ron together. 

“Well, they’re quite capable of dealing with wizards,” 
said Hermione, taking another sip of butterbeer. 
“They’re very clever. They’re not like house-elves, who 
never stick up for themselves.” 

“Uh-oh,” said Ron, staring at the door. 

Rita Skeeter had just entered. She was wearing 
banana-yellow robes today; her long nails were 
painted shocking pink, and she was accompanied by 
her paunchy photographer. She bought drinks, and 
she and the photographer made their way through 
the crowds to a table nearby, Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione glaring at her as she approached. She was 
talking fast and looking very satisfied about 
something. 

"... didn’t seem very keen to talk to us, did he, Bozo? 
Now, why would that be, do you think? And what’s he 
doing with a pack of goblins in tow anyway? Showing 
them the sights . . . what nonsense ... he was always a 
bad liar. Reckon something’s up? Think we should do 
a bit of digging? ‘Disgraced Ex-Head of Magical 
Games and Sports, Ludo Bagman ...’ Snappy start to 
a sentence, Bozo — we just need to find a story to fit 
it — ” 



“Trying to ruin someone else’s life?” said Harry loudly. 

A few people looked around. Rita Skeeter ’s eyes 
widened behind her jeweled spectacles as she saw 
who had spoken. 

“Harry!” she said, beaming. “How lovely! Why don’t 
you come and join — ?” 



Page | 497 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I wouldn’t come near you with a ten-foot 
broomstick,” said Harry furiously. “What did you do 
that to Hagrid for, eh?” 

Rita Skeeter raised her heavily penciled eyebrows. 

“Our readers have a right to the truth, Harry. I am 
merely doing my — ” 

“Who cares if he’s half- giant?” Harry shouted. “There’s 
nothing wrong with him!” 

The whole pub had gone very quiet. Madam Rosmerta 
was staring over from behind the bar, apparently 
oblivious to the fact that the flagon she was filling 
with mead was overflowing. 

Rita Skeeter’s smile flickered very slightly, but she 
hitched it back almost at once; she snapped open her 
crocodile-skin handbag, pulled out her Quick-Quotes 
Quill, and said, “How about giving me an interview 
about the Hagrid you know, Harry? The man behind 
the muscles? Your unlikely friendship and the 
reasons behind it. Would you call him a father 
substitute?” 

Hermione stood up very abruptly, her butterbeer 
clutched in her hand as though it were a grenade. 

“You horrible woman,” she said, through gritted teeth, 
“you don’t care, do you, anything for a story, and 
anyone will do, won’t they? Even Ludo Bagman — ” 

“Sit down, you silly little girl, and don’t talk about 
things you don’t understand,” said Rita Skeeter 
coldly, her eyes hardening as they fell on Hermione. “I 
know things about Ludo Bagman that would make 
your hair curl . . . not that it needs it — ” she added, 
eyeing Hermione ’s bushy hair. 

Page | 498 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Let’s go,” said Hermione, “c’mon, Harry — Ron ...” 



They left; many people were staring at them as they 
went. Harry glanced back as they reached the door. 
Rita Skeeter’s Quick-Quotes Quill was out; it was 
zooming backward and forward over a piece of 
parchment on the table. 

“She’ll be after you next, Hermione,” said Ron in a low 
and worried voice as they walked quickly back up the 
street. 

“Let her try!” said Hermione defiantly; she was 
shaking with rage. “I’ll show her! Silly little girl, am I? 
Oh, I’ll get her back for this. First Harry, then Hagrid 



“You don’t want to go upsetting Rita Skeeter,” said 
Ron nervously. “I’m serious, Hermione, she’ll dig up 
something on you — ” 

“My parents don’t read the Daily Prophet She can’t 
scare me into hiding!” said Hermione, now striding 
along so fast that it was all Harry and Ron could do to 
keep up with her. The last time Harry had seen 
Hermione in a rage like this, she had hit Draco Malfoy 
around the face. “And Hagrid isn’t hiding anymore! 

He should never have let that excuse for a human 
being upset him! Come on!” 

Breaking into a run, she led them all the way back up 
the road, through the gates flanked by winged boars, 
and up through the grounds to Hagrid ’s cabin. 

The curtains were still drawn, and they could hear 
Fang barking as they approached. 

“Hagrid!” Hermione shouted, pounding on his front 
door. “Hagrid, that’s enough! We know you’re in there! 

Page | 499 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Nobody cares if your mum was a giantess, Hagrid! 

You can’t let that foul Skeeter woman do this to you! 
Hagrid, get out here, you’re just being — ” 

The door opened. Hermione said, “About t — !” and 
then stopped, very suddenly, because she had found 
herself face-to-face, not with Hagrid, but with Albus 
Dumbledore. 

“Good afternoon,” he said pleasantly, smiling down at 
them. 

“We — er — we wanted to see Hagrid,” said Hermione 
in a rather small voice. 

“Yes, I surmised as much,” said Dumbledore, his eyes 
twinkling. “Why don’t you come in?” 

“Oh ... um ... okay,” said Hermione. 

She, Ron, and Harry went into the cabin; Fang 
launched himself upon Harry the moment he entered, 
barking madly and trying to lick his ears. Harry 
fended off Fang and looked around. 

Hagrid was sitting at his table, where there were two 
large mugs of tea. He looked a real mess. His face was 
blotchy, his eyes swollen, and he had gone to the 
other extreme where his hair was concerned; far from 
trying to make it behave, it now looked like a wig of 
tangled wire. 

“Hi, Hagrid,” said Harry. 

Hagrid looked up. 

“ ’Lo,” he said in a very hoarse voice. 



Page | 500 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“More tea, I think,” said Dumbledore, closing the door 
behind Harry, Ron, and Hermione, drawing out his 
wand, and twiddling it; a revolving tea tray appeared 
in midair along with a plate of cakes. Dumbledore 
magicked the tray onto the table, and everybody sat 
down. There was a slight pause, and then 
Dumbledore said, “Did you by any chance hear what 
Miss Granger was shouting, Hagrid?” 

Hermione went slightly pink, but Dumbledore smiled 
at her and continued, “Hermione, Harry, and Ron still 
seem to want to know you, judging by the way they 
were attempting to break down the door.” 

“Of course we still want to know you!” Harry said, 
staring at Hagrid. “You don’t think anything that 
Skeeter cow — sorry, Professor,” he added quickly, 
looking at Dumbledore. 

“I have gone temporarily deaf and haven’t any idea 
what you said, Harry,” said Dumbledore, twiddling 
his thumbs and staring at the ceiling. 

“Er — right,” said Harry sheepishly. “I just meant — 
Hagrid, how could you think we’d care what that — 
woman — wrote about you?” 

Two fat tears leaked out of Hagrid ’s beetle-black eyes 
and fell slowly into his tangled beard. 

“Living proof of what I’ve been telling you, Hagrid,” 
said Dumbledore, still looking carefully up at the 
ceiling. “I have shown you the letters from the 
countless parents who remember you from their own 
days here, telling me in no uncertain terms that if I 
sacked you, they would have something to say about 
it — ” 



Page | 501 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Not all of ’em,” said Hagrid hoarsely. “Not all of ’em 
wan’ me ter stay.” 

“Really, Hagrid, if you are holding out for universal 
popularity, I’m afraid you will be in this cabin for a 
very long time,” said Dumbledore, now peering sternly 
over his half-moon spectacles. “Not a week has 
passed since I became headmaster of this school 
when I haven’t had at least one owl complaining 
about the way I run it. But what should I do? 
Barricade myself in my study and refuse to talk to 
anybody?” 

“Yeh — yeh’re not half-giant!” said Hagrid croakily. 

“Hagrid, look what I’ve got for relatives!” Harry said 
furiously. “Look at the Dursleys!” 

“An excellent point,” said Professor Dumbledore. “My 
own brother, Aberforth, was prosecuted for practicing 
inappropriate charms on a goat. It was all over the 
papers, but did Aberforth hide? No, he did not! He 
held his head high and went about his business as 
usual! Of course, I’m not entirely sure he can read, so 
that may not have been bravery. ...” 

“Come back and teach, Hagrid,” said Hermione 
quietly, “please come back, we really miss you.” 

Hagrid gulped. More tears leaked out down his cheeks 
and into his tangled beard. 

Dumbledore stood up. “I refuse to accept your 
resignation, Hagrid, and I expect you back at work on 
Monday,” he said. “You will join me for breakfast at 
eight-thirty in the Great Hall. No excuses. Good 
afternoon to you all.” 



Page | 502 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore left the cabin, pausing only to scratch 
Fang’s ears. When the door had shut behind him, 
Hagrid began to sob into his dustbin-lid-sized hands. 
Hermione kept patting his arm, and at last, Hagrid 
looked up, his eyes very red indeed, and said, “Great 
man, Dumbledore ... great man ...” 

“Yeah, he is,” said Ron. “Can I have one of these 
cakes, Hagrid?” 

“Help yerself,” said Hagrid, wiping his eyes on the 
back of his hand. “Ar, he’s righ’, o’ course — yeh’re all 
righ’ ... I bin stupid ... my ol’ dad woulda bin 
ashamed o’ the way I’ve bin behavin’. ...” More tears 
leaked out, but he wiped them away more forcefully, 
and said, “Never shown you a picture of my old dad, 
have I? Here ...” 

Hagrid got up, went over to his dresser, opened a 
drawer, and pulled out a picture of a short wizard 
with Hagrid’s crinkled black eyes, beaming as he sat 
on top of Hagrid’s shoulder. Hagrid was a good seven 
or eight feet tall, judging by the apple tree beside him, 
but his face was beardless, young, round, and smooth 
— he looked hardly older than eleven. 

“Tha’ was taken jus’ after I got inter Hogwarts,” 

Hagrid croaked. “Dad was dead chuffed ... thought I 
migh’ not be a wizard, see, ’cos me mum ... well, 
anyway. ’Course, I never was great shakes at magic, 
really ... but at least he never saw me expelled. Died, 
see, in me second year. ... 

“Dumbledore was the one who stuck up for me after 
Dad went. Got me the gamekeeper job ... trusts 
people, he does. Gives ’em second chances ... tha’s 
what sets him apar’ from other heads, see. He’ll 
accept anyone at Hogwarts, s’long as they’ve got the 
talent. Knows people can turn out okay even if their 
Page | 503 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




families weren’ ... well ... all tha’ respectable. But 
some don’ understand that. There’s some who’d 
always hold it against yeh ... there’s some who’d even 
pretend they just had big bones rather than stand up 
an’ say — I am what I am, an’ I’m not ashamed. 

‘Never be ashamed,’ my ol’ dad used ter say, ‘there’s 
some wholl hold it against you, but they’re not worth 
botherin’ with.’ An’ he was right. I’ve bin an idiot. I’m 
not botherin’ with her no more, I promise yeh that. 

Big bones ... I’ll give her big bones.” 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at one another 
nervously; Harry would rather have taken fifty Blast- 
Ended Skrewts for a walk than admit to Hagrid that 
he had overheard him talking to Madame Maxime, 
but Hagrid was still talking, apparently unaware that 
he had said anything odd. 

“Yeh know wha’, Harry?” he said, looking up from the 
photograph of his father, his eyes very bright, “when I 
firs’ met you, you reminded me o’ me a bit. Mum an’ 
Dad gone, an’ you was feelin’ like yeh wouldn’ fit in at 
Hogwarts, remember? Not sure yeh were really up to 
it ... an’ now look at yeh, Harry! School champion!” 

He looked at Harry for a moment and then said, very 
seriously, “Yeh know what I’d love, Harry? I’d love yeh 
ter win, I really would. It’d show ’em all ... yeh don’ 
have ter be pureblood ter do it. Yeh don’ have ter be 
ashamed of what yeh are. It’d show ’em Dumbledore’s 
the one who’s got it righ’, lettin’ anyone in as long as 
they can do magic. How you doin’ with that egg, 
Harry?” 

“Great,” said Harry. “Really great.” 

Hagrid ’s miserable face broke into a wide, watery 
smile. 



Page | 504 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Tha’s my boy ... you show ’em, Harry, you show ’em. 
Beat ’em all.” 

Lying to Hagrid wasn’t quite like lying to anyone else. 
Harry went back to the castle later that afternoon 
with Ron and Hermione, unable to banish the image 
of the happy expression on Hagrid’s whiskery face as 
he had imagined Harry winning the tournament. The 
incomprehensible egg weighed more heavily than ever 
on Harry’s conscience that evening, and by the time 
he had got into bed, he had made up his mind — it 
was time to shelve his pride and see if Cedric’s hint 
was worth anything. 



Page | 505 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 









THE EGG AND THE EYE 

As Harry had no idea how long a bath he would need 
to work out the secret of the golden egg, he decided to 
do it at night, when he would be able to take as much 
time as he wanted. Reluctant though he was to accept 
more favours from Cedric, he also decided to use the 
prefects’ bathroom; far fewer people were allowed in 
there, so it was much less likely that he would be 
disturbed. 

Harry planned his excursion carefully, because he 
had been caught out of bed and out-of-bounds by 
Filch the caretaker in the middle of the night once 
before, and had no desire to repeat the experience. 

The Invisibility Cloak would, of course, be essential, 
and as an added precaution, Harry thought he would 
take the Marauder’s Map, which, next to the cloak, 
was the most useful aid to rule-breaking Harry 
owned. The map showed the whole of Hogwarts, 
including its many shortcuts and secret passageways 
and, most important of all, it revealed the people 
inside the castle as minuscule, labeled dots, moving 
around the corridors, so that Harry would be 
Page | 506 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



forewarned if somebody was approaching the 
bathroom. 



On Thursday night, Harry sneaked up to bed, put on 
the cloak, crept back downstairs, and, just as he had 
done on the night when Hagrid had shown him the 
dragons, waited for the portrait hole to open. This 
time it was Ron who waited outside to give the Fat 
Lady the password (“banana fritters”). “Good luck,” 
Ron muttered, climbing into the room as Harry crept 
out past him. 

It was awkward moving under the cloak tonight, 
because Harry had the heavy egg under one arm and 
the map held in front of his nose with the other. 
However, the moonlit corridors were empty and silent, 
and by checking the map at strategic intervals, Harry 
was able to ensure that he wouldn’t run into anyone 
he wanted to avoid. When he reached the statue of 
Boris the Bewildered, a lost-looking wizard with his 
gloves on the wrong hands, he located the right door, 
leaned close to it, and muttered the password, “Pine 
fresh,” just as Cedric had told him. 

The door creaked open. Harry slipped inside, bolted 
the door behind him, and pulled off the Invisibility 
Cloak, looking around. 

His immediate reaction was that it would be worth 
becoming a prefect just to be able to use this 
bathroom. It was softly lit by a splendid candle-filled 
chandelier, and everything was made of white marble, 
including what looked like an empty, rectangular 
swimming pool sunk into the middle of the floor. 

About a hundred golden taps stood all around the 
pool’s edges, each with a differently colored jewel set 
into its handle. There was also a diving board. Long 
white linen curtains hung at the windows; a large pile 
of fluffy white towels sat in a corner, and there was a 
Page | 507 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




single golden-framed painting on the wall. It featured 
a blonde mermaid who was fast asleep on a rock, her 
long hair over her face. It fluttered every time she 
snored. 

Harry moved forward, looking around, his footsteps 
echoing off the walls. Magnificent though the 
bathroom was — and quite keen though he was to try 
out a few of those taps — now he was here he 
couldn’t quite suppress the feeling that Cedric might 
have been having him on. How on earth was this 
supposed to help solve the mystery of the egg? 
Nevertheless, he put one of the fluffy towels, the 
cloak, the map, and the egg at the side of the 
swimming-pool-sized bath, then knelt down and 
turned on a few of the taps. 

He could tell at once that they carried different sorts 
of bubble bath mixed with the water, though it wasn’t 
bubble bath as Harry had ever experienced it. One 
tap gushed pink and blue bubbles the size of 
footballs; another poured ice-white foam so thick that 
Harry thought it would have supported his weight if 
he’d cared to test it; a third sent heavily perfumed 
purple clouds hovering over the surface of the water. 
Harry amused himself for a while turning the taps on 
and off, particularly enjoying the effect of one whose 
jet bounced off the surface of the water in large arcs. 
Then, when the deep pool was full of hot water, foam, 
and bubbles, which took a very short time 
considering its size, Harry turned off all the taps, 
pulled off his pajamas, slippers, and dressing gown, 
and slid into the water. 

It was so deep that his feet barely touched the 
bottom, and he actually did a couple of lengths before 
swimming back to the side and treading water, 
staring at the egg. Highly enjoyable though it was to 
swim in hot and foamy water with clouds of different- 
Page | 508 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




colored steam wafting all around him, no stroke of 
brilliance came to him, no sudden burst of 
understanding. 

Harry stretched out his arms, lifted the egg in his wet 
hands, and opened it. The wailing, screeching sound 
filled the bathroom, echoing and reverberating off the 
marble walls, but it sounded just as 
incomprehensible as ever, if not more so with all the 
echoes. He snapped it shut again, worried that the 
sound would attract Filch, wondering whether that 
hadn’t been Cedric’s plan — and then, making him 
jump so badly that he dropped the egg, which 
clattered away across the bathroom floor, someone 
spoke. 

“I’d try putting it in the water, if I were you.” 

Harry had swallowed a considerable amount of 
bubbles in shock. He stood up, sputtering, and saw 
the ghost of a very glum-looking girl sitting cross- 
legged on top of one of the taps. It was Moaning 
Myrtle, who was usually to be heard sobbing in the S- 
bend of a toilet three floors below. 

“Myrtle!” Harry said in outrage, “I’m — I’m not 
wearing anything!” 

The foam was so dense that this hardly mattered, but 
he had a nasty feeling that Myrtle had been spying on 
him from out of one of the taps ever since he had 
arrived. 

“I closed my eyes when you got in,” she said, blinking 
at him through her thick spectacles. “You haven’t 
been to see me for ages.” 

“Yeah ... well ...” said Harry, bending his knees 
slightly, just to make absolutely sure Myrtle couldn’t 

Page | 509 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




see anything but his head, “I’m not supposed to come 
into your bathroom, am I? It’s a girls’ one.” 



“You didn’t used to care,” said Myrtle miserably. “You 
used to be in there all the time.” 

This was true, though only because Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione had found Myrtle’s out-of-order toilets a 
convenient place to brew Polyjuice Potion in secret — 
a forbidden potion that had turned him and Ron into 
living replicas of Crabbe and Goyle for an hour, so 
that they could sneak into the Slytherin common 
room. 

“I got told off for going in there,” said Harry, which 
was half-true; Percy had once caught him coming out 
of Myrtle’s bathroom. “I thought I’d better not come 
back after that.” 

“Oh ... I see ...” said Myrtle, picking at a spot on her 
chin in a morose sort of way. “Well... anyway ... I’d try 
the egg in the water. That’s what Cedric Diggory did.” 

“Have you been spying on him too?” said Harry 
indignantly. “What d’you do, sneak up here in the 
evenings to watch the prefects take baths?” 

“Sometimes,” said Myrtle, rather slyly, “but I’ve never 
come out to speak to anyone before.” 

“I’m honored,” said Harry darkly. “You keep your eyes 
shut!” 

He made sure Myrtle had her glasses well covered 
before hoisting himself out of the bath, wrapping the 
towel firmly around his waist, and going to retrieve 
the egg. Once he was back in the water, Myrtle peered 
through her fingers and said, “Go on, then . . . open it 
under the water!” 

Page | 510 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




Harry lowered the egg beneath the foamy surface and 
opened it ... and this time, it did not wail. A gurgling 
song was coming out of it, a song whose words he 
couldn’t distinguish through the water. 

“You need to put your head under too,” said Myrtle, 
who seemed to be thoroughly enjoying bossing him 
around. “Go on!” 

Harry took a great breath and slid under the surface 
— and now, sitting on the marble bottom of the 
bubble-filled bath, he heard a chorus of eerie voices 
singing to him from the open egg in his hands: 

“Come seek us where our voices sound, 

We cannot sing above the ground, 

And while you’re searching ponder this: 

We’ve taken what you’ll sorely miss, 

An hour long you’ll have to look, 

And to recover what we took, 

But past an hour — the prospect’s black, 

Too late, it’s gone, it won’t come back.” 

Harry let himself float back upward and broke the 
bubbly surface, shaking his hair out of his eyes. 

“Hear it?” said Myrtle. 

“Yeah ... ‘Come seek us where our voices sound ...’ 
and if I need persuading . . . hang on, I need to listen 
again. ...” 



Page | 511 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




He sank back beneath the water. It took three more 
underwater renditions of the egg’s song before Harry 
had it memorized; then he trod water for a while, 
thinking hard, while Myrtle sat and watched him. 

“I’ve got to go and look for people who can’t use their 
voices above the ground. ...” he said slowly. “Er ... 
who could that be?” 

“Slow, aren’t you?” 

He had never seen Moaning Myrtle so cheerful, apart 
from the day when a dose of Polyjuice Potion had 
given Hermione the hairy face and tail of a cat. Harry 
stared around the bathroom, thinking ... if the voices 
could only be heard underwater, then it made sense 
for them to belong to underwater creatures. He ran 
this theory past Myrtle, who smirked at him. 

“Well, that’s what Diggory thought,” she said. “He lay 
there talking to himself for ages about it. Ages and 
ages ... nearly all the bubbles had gone. ...” 

“Underwater ...” Harry said slowly. “Myrtle ... what 
lives in the lake, apart from the giant squid?” 

“Oh all sorts,” she said. “I sometimes go down there 
... sometimes don’t have any choice, if someone 
flushes my toilet when I’m not expecting it. ...” 

Trying not to think about Moaning Myrtle zooming 
down a pipe to the lake with the contents of a toilet, 
Harry said, “Well, does anything in there have a 
human voice? Hang on — ” 

Harry’s eyes had fallen on the picture of the snoozing 
mermaid on the wall. 

“Myrtle, there aren’t merpeople in there, are there?” 

Page | 512 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Oooh, very good,” she said, her thick glasses 
twinkling, “it took Diggory much longer than that! 

And that was with her awake too” — Myrtle jerked her 
head toward the mermaid with an expression of great 
dislike on her glum face — “giggling and showing off 
and flashing her fins. ...” 

“That’s it, isn’t it?” said Harry excitedly. “The second 
task’s to go and find the merpeople in the lake and . . . 
and ...” 

But he suddenly realized what he was saying, and he 
felt the excitement drain out of him as though 
someone had just pulled a plug in his stomach. He 
wasn’t a very good swimmer; he’d never had much 
practice. Dudley had had lessons in his youth, but 
Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon, no doubt hoping 
that Harry would drown one day, hadn’t bothered to 
give him any. A couple of lengths of this bath were all 
very well, but that lake was very large, and very deep 
. . . and merpeople would surely live right at the 
bottom. ... 

“Myrtle,” Harry said slowly, “how am I supposed to 
breathe ?” 

At this, Myrtle’s eyes filled with sudden tears again. 

“Tactless!” she muttered, groping in her robes for a 
handkerchief. 

“What’s tactless?” said Harry, bewildered. 

“Talking about breathing in front of me!” she said 
shrilly, and her voice echoed loudly around the 
bathroom. “When I can’t ... when I haven’t ... not for 
ages ...” 



Page | 513 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




She buried her face in her handkerchief and sniffed 
loudly. Harry remembered how touchy Myrtle had 
always been about being dead, but none of the other 
ghosts he knew made such a fuss about it. 

“Sorry,” he said impatiently. “I didn’t mean — I just 
forgot ...” 

“Oh yes, very easy to forget Myrtle’s dead,” said 
Myrtle, gulping, looking at him out of swollen eyes. 
“Nobody missed me even when I was alive. Took them 
hours and hours to find my body — I know, I was 
sitting there waiting for them. Olive Hornby came into 
the bathroom — ‘Are you in here again, sulking, 
Myrtle?’ she said, ‘because Professor Dippet asked me 
to look for you — ’ And then she saw my body . . . 
ooooh, she didn’t forget it until her dying day, I made 
sure of that . . . followed her around and reminded her, 
I did. I remember at her brother’s wedding — ” 

But Harry wasn’t listening; he was thinking about the 
merpeople’s song again. “We’ve taken what you’ll 
sorely miss.” That sounded as though they were going 
to steal something of his, something he had to get 
back. What were they going to take? 

“ — and then, of course, she went to the Ministry of 
Magic to stop me stalking her, so I had to come back 
here and live in my toilet.” 

“Good,” said Harry vaguely. “Well, I’m a lot further on 
than I was. ... Shut your eyes again, will you? I’m 
getting out.” 

He retrieved the egg from the bottom of the bath, 
climbed out, dried himself, and pulled on his pajamas 
and dressing gown again. 



Page | 514 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Will you come and visit me in my bathroom again 
sometime?” Moaning Myrtle asked mournfully as 
Harry picked up the Invisibility Cloak. 

“Er ... I’ll try,” Harry said, though privately thinking 
the only way he’d be visiting Myrtle’s bathroom again 
was if every other toilet in the castle got blocked. “See 
you, Myrtle ... thanks for your help.” 

“ ’Bye, ’bye,” she said gloomily, and as Harry put on 
the Invisibility Cloak he saw her zoom back up the 
tap. 

Out in the dark corridor, Harry examined the 
Marauder’s Map to check that the coast was still 
clear. Yes, the dots belonging to Filch and his cat, 

Mrs. Norris, were safely in their office ... nothing else 
seemed to be moving apart from Peeves, though he 
was bouncing around the trophy room on the floor 
above. ... Harry had taken his first step back toward 
Gryffindor Tower when something else on the map 
caught his eye ... something distinctly odd. 

Peeves was not the only thing that was moving. A 
single dot was flitting around a room in the bottom 
left-hand corner — Snape’s office. But the dot wasn’t 
labeled “Severus Snape” ... it was Bartemius Crouch. 

Harry stared at the dot. Mr. Crouch was supposed to 
be too ill to go to work or to come to the Yule Ball — 
so what was he doing, sneaking into Hogwarts at one 
o’clock in the morning? Harry watched closely as the 
dot moved around and around the room, pausing 
here and there. ... 

Harry hesitated, thinking . . . and then his curiosity got 
the better of him. He turned and set off in the 
opposite direction toward the nearest staircase. He 
was going to see what Crouch was up to. 

Page | 515 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry walked down the stairs as quietly as possible, 
though the faces in some of the portraits still turned 
curiously at the squeak of a floorboard, the rustle of 
his pajamas. He crept along the corridor below, 
pushed aside a tapestry about halfway along, and 
proceeded down a narrower staircase, a shortcut that 
would take him down two floors. He kept glancing 
down at the map, wondering ... It just didn’t seem in 
character, somehow, for correct, law-abiding Mr. 
Crouch to be sneaking around somebody else’s office 
this late at night. ... 

And then, halfway down the staircase, not thinking 
about what he was doing, not concentrating on 
anything but the peculiar behavior of Mr. Crouch, 
Harry’s leg suddenly sank right through the trick step 
Neville always forgot to jump. He gave an ungainly 
wobble, and the golden egg, still damp from the bath, 
slipped from under his arm. He lurched forward to try 
and catch it, but too late; the egg fell down the long 
staircase with a bang as loud as a bass drum on 
every step — the Invisibility Cloak slipped — Harry 
snatched at it, and the Marauder’s Map fluttered out 
of his hand and slid down six stairs, where, sunk in 
the step to above his knee, he couldn’t reach it. 

The golden egg fell through the tapestry at the bottom 
of the staircase, burst open, and began wailing loudly 
in the corridor below. Harry pulled out his wand and 
struggled to touch the Marauder’s Map, to wipe it 
blank, but it was too far away to reach — 

Pulling the cloak back over himself Harry 
straightened up, listening hard with his eyes screwed 
up with fear ... and, almost immediately — 

“PEEVES!” 



Page | 516 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




It was the unmistakable hunting cry of Filch the 
caretaker. Harry could hear his rapid, shuffling 
footsteps coming nearer and nearer, his wheezy voice 
raised in fury. 

“What’s this racket? Wake up the whole castle, will 
you? I’ll have you, Peeves, I’ll have you, you’ll ... and 
what is this?” 

Filch ’s footsteps halted; there was a clink of metal on 
metal and the wailing stopped — Filch had picked up 
the egg and closed it. Harry stood very still, one leg 
still jammed tightly in the magical step, listening. Any 
moment now, Filch was going to pull aside the 
tapestry, expecting to see Peeves . . . and there would 
be no Peeves ... but if he came up the stairs, he would 
spot the Marauder’s Map ... and Invisibility Cloak or 
not, the map would show “Harry Potter” standing 
exactly where he was. 

“Egg?” Filch said quietly at the foot of the stairs. “My 
sweet!” — Mrs. Norris was obviously with him — “This 
is a Triwizard clue! This belongs to a school 
champion!” 

Harry felt sick; his heart was hammering very fast — 

“PEEVES!” Filch roared gleefully. “You’ve been 
stealing!” 

He ripped back the tapestry below, and Harry saw his 
horrible, pouchy face and bulging, pale eyes staring 
up the dark and (to Filch) deserted staircase. 

“Hiding, are you?” he said softly. “I’m coming to get 
you, Peeves. ... You’ve gone and stolen a Tri wizard 
clue, Peeves. ... Dumbledore’ll have you out of here 
for this, you filthy, pilfering poltergeist. ...” 



Page | 517 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Filch started to climb the stairs, his scrawny, dust- 
colored cat at his heels. Mrs. Norris’s lamp-like eyes, 
so very like her master’s, were fixed directly upon 
Harry. He had had occasion before now to wonder 
whether the Invisibility Cloak worked on cats. ... Sick 
with apprehension, he watched Filch drawing nearer 
and nearer in his old flannel dressing gown — he 
tried desperately to pull his trapped leg free, but it 
merely sank a few more inches — any second now, 
Filch was going to spot the map or walk right into him 



“Filch? What’s going on?” 

Filch stopped a few steps below Harry and turned. At 
the foot of the stairs stood the only person who could 
make Harry’s situation worse: Snape. He was wearing 
a long gray nightshirt and he looked livid. 

“It’s Peeves, Professor,” Filch whispered malevolently. 
“He threw this egg down the stairs.” 

Snape climbed up the stairs quickly and stopped 
beside Filch. Harry gritted his teeth, convinced his 
loudly thumping heart would give him away at any 
second. ... 

“Peeves?” said Snape softly, staring at the egg in 
Filch’s hands. “But Peeves couldn’t get into my office. 



“This egg was in your office, Professor?” 

“Of course not,” Snape snapped. “I heard banging and 
wailing — ” 

“Yes, Professor, that was the egg — ” 

“ — I was coming to investigate — ” 

Page | 518 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“ — Peeves threw it, Professor — ” 

“ — and when I passed my office, I saw that the 
torches were lit and a cupboard door was ajar! 
Somebody has been searching it!” 

“But Peeves couldn’t — ” 

“I know he couldn’t, Filch!” Snape snapped again. “I 
seal my office with a spell none but a wizard could 
break!” Snape looked up the stairs, straight through 
Harry, and then down into the corridor below. “I want 
you to come and help me search for the intruder, 
Filch.” 

“I — yes, Professor — but — ” 

Filch looked yearningly up the stairs, right through 
Harry, who could see that he was very reluctant to 
forgo the chance of cornering Peeves. Go, Harry 
pleaded with him silently, go with Snape ... go ... Mrs. 
Norris was peering around Filch ’s legs. ... Harry had 
the distinct impression that she could smell him. ... 
Why had he filled that bath with so much perfumed 
foam? 

“The thing is, Professor,” said Filch plaintively, “the 
headmaster will have to listen to me this time. Peeves 
has been stealing from a student, it might be my 
chance to get him thrown out of the castle once and 
for all — ” 

“Filch, I don’t give a damn about that wretched 
poltergeist; it’s my office that’s — ” 

Clunk. Clunk. Clunk. 

Snape stopped talking very abruptly. He and Filch 
both looked down at the foot of the stairs. Harry saw 

Page | 519 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Mad-Eye Moody limp into sight through the narrow 
gap between their heads. Moody was wearing his old 
traveling cloak over his nightshirt and leaning on his 
staff as usual. 

“Pajama party, is it?” he growled up the stairs. 

“Professor Snape and I heard noises, Professor,” said 
Filch at once. “Peeves the Poltergeist, throwing things 
around as usual — and then Professor Snape 
discovered that someone had broken into his off — ” 

“Shut up!” Snape hissed to Filch. 

Moody took a step closer to the foot of the stairs. 

Harry saw Moody’s magical eye travel over Snape, and 
then, unmistakably, onto himself. 

Harry’s heart gave a horrible jolt. Moody could see 
through Invisibility Cloaks ... he alone could see the 
full strangeness of the scene: Snape in his nightshirt, 
Filch clutching the egg, and he, Harry, trapped in the 
stairs behind them. Moody’s lopsided gash of a mouth 
opened in surprise. For a few seconds, he and Harry 
stared straight into each other’s eyes. Then Moody 
closed his mouth and turned his blue eye upon Snape 
again. 

“Did I hear that correctly, Snape?” he asked slowly. 
“Someone broke into your office?” 

“It is unimportant,” said Snape coldly. 

“On the contrary,” growled Moody, “it is very 
important. Who’d want to break into your office?” 

“A student, I daresay,” said Snape. Harry could see a 
vein flickering horribly on Snape ’s greasy temple. “It 
has happened before. Potion ingredients have gone 

Page | 520 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




missing from my private store cupboard ... students 
attempting illicit mixtures, no doubt. ...” 

“Reckon they were after potion ingredients, eh?” said 
Moody. “Not hiding anything else in your office, are 
you?” 

Harry saw the edge of Snape ’s sallow face turn a 
nasty brick color, the vein in his temple pulsing more 
rapidly. 

“You know I’m hiding nothing, Moody,” he said in a 
soft and dangerous voice, “as you’ve searched my 
office pretty thoroughly yourself.” 

Moody’s face twisted into a smile. “Auror’s privilege, 
Snape. Dumbledore told me to keep an eye — ” 

“Dumbledore happens to trust me,” said Snape 
through clenched teeth. “I refuse to believe that he 
gave you orders to search my office!” 

“ ’Course Dumbledore trusts you,” growled Moody. 
“He’s a trusting man, isn’t he? Believes in second 
chances. But me — I say there are spots that don’t 
come off, Snape. Spots that never come off, d’you 
know what I mean?” 

Snape suddenly did something very strange. He 
seized his left forearm convulsively with his right 
hand, as though something on it had hurt him. 

Moody laughed. “Get back to bed, Snape.” 

“You don’t have the authority to send me anywhere!” 
Snape hissed, letting go of his arm as though angry 
with himself. “I have as much right to prowl this 
school after dark as you do!” 



Page | 521 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Prowl away,” said Moody, but his voice was full of 
menace. “I look forward to meeting you in a dark 
corridor some time. ... You’ve dropped something, by 
the way. ...” 

With a stab of horror, Harry saw Moody point at the 
Marauder’s Map, still lying on the staircase six steps 
below him. As Snape and Filch both turned to look at 
it, Harry threw caution to the winds; he raised his 
arms under the cloak and waved furiously at Moody 
to attract his attention, mouthing “It’s mine! Mine!” 

Snape had reached out for it, a horrible expression of 
dawning comprehension on his face — 

“Accio Parchments 

The map flew up into the air, slipped through Snape ’s 
outstretched fingers, and soared down the stairs into 
Moody’s hand. 

“My mistake,” Moody said calmly. “It’s mine — 
must’ve dropped it earlier — ” 

But Snape ’s black eyes were darting from the egg in 
Filch’s arms to the map in Moody’s hand, and Harry 
could tell he was putting two and two together, as 
only Snape could. ... 

“Potter,” he said quietly. 

“What’s that?” said Moody calmly, folding up the map 
and pocketing it. 

“Potter!” Snape snarled, and he actually turned his 
head and stared right at the place where Harry was, 
as though he could suddenly see him. “That egg is 
Potter’s egg. That piece of parchment belongs to 



Page | 522 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Potter. I have seen it before, I recognize it! Potter is 
here! Potter, in his Invisibility Cloak!” 

Snape stretched out his hands like a blind man and 
began to move up the stairs; Harry could have sworn 
his over-large nostrils were dilating, trying to sniff 
Harry out — trapped, Harry leaned backward, trying 
to avoid Snape’s fingertips, but any moment now — 

“There’s nothing there, Snape!” barked Moody, “but 
I’ll be happy to tell the headmaster how quickly your 
mind jumped to Harry Potter!” 

“Meaning what?” Snape turned again to look at 
Moody, his hands still outstretched, inches from 
Harry’s chest. 

“Meaning that Dumbledore’s very interested to know 
who’s got it in for that boy!” said Moody, limping 
nearer still to the foot of the stairs. “And so am I, 
Snape ... very interested. ...” The torchlight flickered 
across his mangled face, so that the scars, and the 
chunk missing from his nose, looked deeper and 
darker than ever. 

Snape was looking down at Moody, and Harry 
couldn’t see the expression on his face. For a 
moment, nobody moved or said anything. Then Snape 
slowly lowered his hands. 

“I merely thought,” said Snape, in a voice of forced 
calm, “that if Potter was wandering around after 
hours again ... it’s an unfortunate habit of his ... he 
should be stopped. For — for his own safety.” 

“Ah, I see,” said Moody softly. “Got Potter’s best 
interests at heart, have you?” 



Page | 523 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




There was a pause. Snape and Moody were still 
staring at each other. Mrs. Norris gave a loud meow, 
still peering around Filch’s legs, looking for the source 
of Harry’s bubble-bath smell. 

“I think I will go back to bed,” Snape said curtly. 

“Best idea you’ve had all night,” said Moody. “Now, 
Filch, if you’ll just give me that egg — ” 

“No!” said Filch, clutching the egg as though it were 
his firstborn son. “Professor Moody, this is evidence of 
Peeves’ treachery!” 

“It’s the property of the champion he stole it from,” 
said Moody. “Hand it over, now.” 

Snape swept downstairs and passed Moody without 
another word. Filch made a chirruping noise to Mrs. 
Norris, who stared blankly at Harry for a few more 
seconds before turning and following her master. Still 
breathing very fast, Harry heard Snape walking away 
down the corridor; Filch handed Moody the egg and 
disappeared from view too, muttering to Mrs. Norris. 
“Never mind, my sweet ... we’ll see Dumbledore in the 
morning ... tell him what Peeves was up to. ...” 

A door slammed. Harry was left staring down at 
Moody, who placed his staff on the bottommost stair 
and started to climb laboriously toward him, a dull 
clunk on every other step. 

“Close shave, Potter,” he muttered. 

“Yeah ... I — er ... thanks,” said Harry weakly. 

“What is this thing?” said Moody, drawing the 
Marauders Map out of his pocket and unfolding it. 



Page | 524 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Map of Hogwarts,” said Harry, hoping Moody was 
going to pull him out of the staircase soon; his leg 
was really hurting him. 

“Merlin’s beard,” Moody whispered, staring at the 
map, his magical eye going haywire. “This ... this is 
some map, Potter!” 

“Yeah, it’s ... quite useful,” Harry said. His eyes were 
starting to water from the pain. “Er — Professor 
Moody, d’you think you could help me — ?” 

“What? Oh! Yes ... yes, of course ...” 

Moody took hold of Harry’s arms and pulled; Harry’s 
leg came free of the trick step, and he climbed onto 
the one above it. Moody was still gazing at the map. 

“Potter ...” he said slowly, “you didn’t happen, by any 
chance, to see who broke into Snape’s office, did you? 
On this map, I mean?” 

“Er ... yeah, I did ...” Harry admitted. “It was Mr. 
Crouch.” 

Moody’s magical eye whizzed over the entire surface of 
the map. He looked suddenly alarmed. 

“Crouch?” he said. “You’re — you’re sure, Potter?” 

“Positive,” said Harry. 

“Well, he’s not here anymore,” said Moody, his eye 
still whizzing over the map. “Crouch ... that’s very — 
very interesting. ...” 

He said nothing for almost a minute, still staring at 
the map. Harry could tell that this news meant 
something to Moody and very much wanted to know 

Page | 525 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




what it was. He wondered whether he dared ask. 
Moody scared him slightly ... yet Moody had just 
helped him avoid an awful lot of trouble. ... 

“Er ... Professor Moody ... why d’you reckon Mr. 
Crouch wanted to look around S nape’s office?” 

Moody’s magical eye left the map and fixed, quivering, 
upon Harry. It was a penetrating glare, and Harry had 
the impression that Moody was sizing him up, 
wondering whether to answer or not, or how much to 
tell him. 

“Put it this way, Potter,” Moody muttered finally, “they 
say old Mad-Eye’s obsessed with catching Dark 
wizards ... but I’m nothing — nothing — compared to 
Barty Crouch.” 

He continued to stare at the map. Harry was burning 
to know more. 

“Professor Moody?” he said again. “D’you think ... 
could this have anything to do with . . . maybe Mr. 
Crouch thinks there’s something going on. ...” 

“Like what?” said Moody sharply. 

Harry wondered how much he dare say. He didn’t 
want Moody to guess that he had a source of 
information outside Hogwarts; that might lead to 
tricky questions about Sirius. 

“I don’t know,” Harry muttered, “odd stuff’s been 
happening lately, hasn’t it? It’s been in the Daily 
Prophet ... the Dark Mark at the World Cup, and the 
Death Eaters and everything. ...” 

Both of Moody’s mismatched eyes widened. 



Page | 526 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“You’re a sharp boy, Potter,” he said. His magical eye 
roved back to the Marauder’s Map. “Crouch could be 
thinking along those lines,” he said slowly. “Very 
possible ... there have been some funny rumors flying 
around lately — helped along by Rita Skeeter, of 
course. It’s making a lot of people nervous, I reckon.” 

A grim smile twisted his lopsided mouth. “Oh if 
there’s one thing I hate,” he muttered, more to himself 
than to Harry, and his magical eye was fixed on the 
left-hand corner of the map, “it’s a Death Eater who 
walked free. ...” 

Harry stared at him. Could Moody possibly mean 
what Harry thought he meant? 

“And now I want to ask you a question, Potter,” said 
Moody in a more businesslike tone. 

Harry’s heart sank; he had thought this was coming. 
Moody was going to ask where he had got this map, 
which was a very dubious magical object — and the 
story of how it had fallen into his hands incriminated 
not only him, but his own father, Fred and George 
Weasley, and Professor Lupin, their last Defense 
Against the Dark Arts teacher. Moody waved the map 
in front of Harry, who braced himself — 

“Can I borrow this?” 

“Oh!” said Harry. 

He was very fond of his map, but on the other hand, 
he was extremely relieved that Moody wasn’t asking 
where he’d got it, and there was no doubt that he 
owed Moody a favor. 

“Yeah, okay.” 



Page | 527 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Good boy,” growled Moody. “I can make good use of 
this ... this might be exactly what I’ve been looking 
for. ... Right, bed, Potter, come on, now. ...” 

They climbed to the top of the stairs together, Moody 
still examining the map as though it was a treasure 
the like of which he had never seen before. They 
walked in silence to the door of Moody’s office, where 
he stopped and looked up at Harry. 

“You ever thought of a career as an Auror, Potter?” 

“No,” said Harry, taken aback. 

“You want to consider it,” said Moody, nodding and 
looking at Harry thoughtfully. “Yes, indeed ... and 
incidentally ... I’m guessing you weren’t just taking 
that egg for a walk tonight?” 

“Er — no,” said Harry, grinning. “I’ve been working 
out the clue.” 

Moody winked at him, his magical eye going haywire 
again. 

“Nothing like a nighttime stroll to give you ideas, 
Potter. ... See you in the morning. ...” 

He went back into his office, staring down at the 
Marauder’s Map again, and closed the door behind 
him. 

Harry walked slowly back to Gryffindor Tower, lost in 
thought about Snape, and Crouch, and what it all 
meant. ... Why was Crouch pretending to be ill, if he 
could manage to get to Hogwarts when he wanted to? 
What did he think Snape was concealing in his office? 



Page | 528 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




And Moody thought he, Harry, ought to be an Auror! 
Interesting idea . . . but somehow, Harry thought, as 
he got quietly into his four-poster ten minutes later, 
the egg and the cloak now safely back in his trunk, he 
thought he’d like to check how scarred the rest of 
them were before he chose it as a career. 



Page | 529 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 







THE SECOND TASK 

“You said you’d already worked out that egg clue!” 
said Hermione indignantly. 

“Keep your voice down!” said Harry crossly. “I just 
need to — sort of fine-tune it, all right?” 

He, Ron, and Hermione were sitting at the very back 
of the Charms class with a table to themselves. They 
were supposed to be practicing the opposite of the 
Summoning Charm today — the Banishing Charm. 
Owing to the potential for nasty accidents when 
objects kept flying across the room, Professor Flitwick 
had given each student a stack of cushions on which 
to practice, the theory being that these wouldn’t hurt 
anyone if they went off target. It was a good theory, 
but it wasn’t working very well. Neville’s aim was so 
poor that he kept accidentally sending much heavier 
things flying across the room — Professor Flitwick, for 
instance. 

“Just forget the egg for a minute, all right?” Harry 
hissed as Professor Flitwick went whizzing resignedly 

Page | 530 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



past them, landing on top of a large cabinet. “I’m 
trying to tell you about Snape and Moody. ...” 

This class was an ideal cover for a private 
conversation, as everyone was having far too much 
fun to pay them any attention. Harry had been 
recounting his adventures of the previous night in 
whispered installments for the last half hour. 

“Snape said Moody’s searched his office as well?” Ron 
whispered, his eyes alight with interest as he 
Banished a cushion with a sweep of his wand (it 
soared into the air and knocked Parvati’s hat off). 
“What ... d’you reckon Moody’s here to keep an eye on 
Snape as well as Karkaroff?” 

“Well, I dunno if that’s what Dumbledore asked him 
to do, but he’s definitely doing it,” said Harry, waving 
his wand without paying much attention, so that his 
cushion did an odd sort of belly flop off the desk. 
“Moody said Dumbledore only lets Snape stay here 
because he’s giving him a second chance or 
something. ...” 

“What?” said Ron, his eyes widening, his next cushion 
spinning high into the air, ricocheting off the 
chandelier, and dropping heavily onto Flitwick’s desk. 
“Harry . . . maybe Moody thinks Snape put your name 
in the Goblet of Fire!” 

“Oh Ron,” said Hermione, shaking her head 
sceptically, “we thought Snape was trying to kill 
Harry before, and it turned out he was saving Harry’s 
life, remember?” 

She Banished a cushion and it flew across the room 
and landed in the box they were all supposed to be 
aiming at. Harry looked at Hermione, thinking ... it 
was true that Snape had saved his life once, but the 

Page | 531 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




odd thing was, Snape definitely loathed him, just as 
he’d loathed Harry’s father when they had been at 
school together. Snape loved taking points from 
Harry, and had certainly never missed an opportunity 
to give him punishments, or even to suggest that he 
should be suspended from the school. 

“I don’t care what Moody says,” Hermione went on. 
“Dumbledore’s not stupid. He was right to trust 
Hagrid and Professor Lupin, even though loads of 
people wouldn’t have given them jobs, so why 
shouldn’t he be right about Snape, even if Snape is a 
bit — ” 



“ — evil,” said Ron promptly. “Come on, Hermione, 
why are all these Dark wizard catchers searching his 
office, then?” 

“Why has Mr. Crouch been pretending to be ill?” said 
Hermione, ignoring Ron. “It’s a bit funny, isn’t it, that 
he can’t manage to come to the Yule Ball, but he can 
get up here in the middle of the night when he wants 
to?” 

“You just don’t like Crouch because of that elf, 
Winky,” said Ron, sending a cushion soaring into the 
window. 

“You just want to think Snape’s up to something,” 
said Hermione, sending her cushion zooming neatly 
into the box. 

“I just want to know what Snape did with his first 
chance, if he’s on his second one,” said Harry grimly, 
and his cushion, to his very great surprise, flew 
straight across the room and landed neatly on top of 
Hermione ’s. 



Page | 532 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Obedient to Sirius’s wish of hearing about anything 
odd at Hogwarts, Harry sent him a letter by brown 
owl that night, explaining all about Mr. Crouch 
breaking into Snape’s office, and Moody and Snape’s 
conversation. Then Harry turned his attention in 
earnest to the most urgent problem facing him: how 
to survive underwater for an hour on the twenty- 
fourth of February. 

Ron quite liked the idea of using the Summoning 
Charm again — Harry had explained about Aqua- 
Lungs, and Ron couldn’t see why Harry shouldn’t 
Summon one from the nearest Muggle town. 

Hermione squashed this plan by pointing out that, in 
the unlikely event that Harry managed to learn how 
to operate an Aqua-Lung within the set limit of an 
hour, he was sure to be disqualified for breaking the 
International Code of Wizarding Secrecy — it was too 
much to hope that no Muggles would spot an Aqua- 
Lung zooming across the countryside to Hogwarts. 

“Of course, the ideal solution would be for you to 
Transfigure yourself into a submarine or something,” 
Hermione said. “If only we’d done human 
Transfiguration already! But I don’t think we start 
that until sixth year, and it can go badly wrong if you 
don’t know what you’re doing. ...” 

“Yeah, I don’t fancy walking around with a periscope 
sticking out of my head,” said Harry. “I s’pose I could 
always attack someone in front of Moody; he might do 
it for me. ...” 

“I don’t think he’d let you choose what you wanted to 
be turned into, though,” said Hermione seriously. 

“No, I think your best chance is some sort of charm.” 

So Harry, thinking that he would soon have had 
enough of the library to last him a lifetime, buried 

Page | 533 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




himself once more among the dusty volumes, looking 
for any spell that might enable a human to survive 
without oxygen. However, though he, Ron, and 
Hermione searched through their lunchtimes, 
evenings, and whole weekends — though Harry asked 
Professor McGonagall for a note of permission to use 
the Restricted Section, and even asked the irritable, 
vulture-like librarian, Madam Pince, for help — they 
found nothing whatsoever that would enable Harry to 
spend an hour underwater and live to tell the tale. 

Familiar flutterings of panic were starting to disturb 
Harry now, and he was finding it difficult to 
concentrate in class again. The lake, which Harry had 
always taken for granted as just another feature of 
the grounds, drew his eyes whenever he was near a 
classroom window, a great, iron-gray mass of chilly 
water, whose dark and icy depths were starting to 
seem as distant as the moon. 

Just as it had before he faced the Horntail, time was 
slipping away as though somebody had bewitched the 
clocks to go extra-fast. There was a week to go before 
February the twenty-fourth (there was still time) ... 
there were five days to go (he was bound to find 
something soon) ... three days to go (please let me find 
something . . . please) . . . 

With two days left, Harry started to go off food again. 
The only good thing about breakfast on Monday was 
the return of the brown owl he had sent to Sirius. He 
pulled off the parchment, unrolled it, and saw the 
shortest letter Sirius had ever written to him. 

Send date of next Hogsmeade weekend by return owl. 

Harry turned the parchment over and looked at the 
back, hoping to see something else, but it was blank. 



Page | 534 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Weekend after next,” whispered Hermione, who had 
read the note over Harry’s shoulder. “Here — take my 
quill and send this owl back straight away.” 

Harry scribbled the dates down on the back of 
Sirius’s letter, tied it onto the brown owl’s leg, and 
watched it take flight again. What had he expected? 
Advice on how to survive underwater? He had been so 
intent on telling Sirius all about Snape and Moody he 
had completely forgotten to mention the egg’s clue. 

“What’s he want to know about the next Hogsmeade 
weekend for?” said Ron. 

“Dunno,” said Harry dully. The momentary happiness 
that had flared inside him at the sight of the owl had 
died. “Come on ... Care of Magical Creatures.” 

Whether Hagrid was trying to make up for the Blast- 
Ended Skrewts, or because there were now only two 
skrewts left, or because he was trying to prove he 
could do anything that Professor Grubbly-Plank 
could, Harry didn’t know, but Hagrid had been 
continuing her lessons on unicorns ever since he’d 
returned to work. It turned out that Hagrid knew 
quite as much about unicorns as he did about 
monsters, though it was clear that he found their lack 
of poisonous fangs disappointing. 

Today he had managed to capture two unicorn foals. 
Unlike full-grown unicorns, they were pure gold. 
Parvati and Lavender went into transports of delight 
at the sight of them, and even Pansy Parkinson had 
to work hard to conceal how much she liked them. 

“Easier ter spot than the adults,” Hagrid told the 
class. “They turn silver when they’re abou’ two years 
old, an’ they grow horns at aroun’ four. Don’ go pure 
white till they’re full grown, ’round about seven. 

Page | 535 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




They’re a bit more trustin’ when they’re babies ... don’ 
mind boys so much. ... C’mon, move in a bit, yeh can 
pat ’em if yeh want ... give ’em a few o’ these sugar 
lumps. ... 

“You okay, Harry?” Hagrid muttered, moving aside 
slightly, while most of the others swarmed around the 
baby unicorns. 

“Yeah,” said Harry. 

“Jus’ nervous, eh?” said Hagrid. 

“Bit,” said Harry. 

“Harry,” said Hagrid, clapping a massive hand on his 
shoulder, so that Harry’s knees buckled under its 
weight, “I’d’ve bin worried before I saw yeh take on 
tha’ Horntail, but I know now yeh can do anythin’ yeh 
set yer mind ter. I’m not worried at all. Yeh’re goin’ ter 
be fine. Got yer clue worked out, haven’ yeh?” 

Harry nodded, but even as he did so, an insane urge 
to confess that he didn’t have any idea how to survive 
at the bottom of the lake for an hour came over him. 
He looked up at Hagrid — perhaps he had to go into 
the lake sometimes, to deal with the creatures in it? 
He looked after everything else on the grounds, after 
all — 

“Yeh’re goin’ ter win,” Hagrid growled, patting Harry’s 
shoulder again, so that Harry actually felt himself 
sink a couple of inches into the soft ground. “I know 
it. I can feel it. Yeh’re goin’ ter win, Harry.” 

Harry just couldn’t bring himself to wipe the happy, 
confident smile off Hagrid ’s face. Pretending he was 
interested in the young unicorns, he forced a smile in 



Page | 536 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




return, and moved forward to pat them with the 
others. 



By the evening before the second task, Harry felt as 
though he were trapped in a nightmare. He was fully 
aware that even if, by some miracle, he managed to 
find a suitable spell, he’d have a real job mastering it 
overnight. How could he have let this happen? Why 
hadn’t he got to work on the egg’s clue sooner? Why 
had he ever let his mind wander in class — what if a 
teacher had once mentioned how to breathe 
underwater? 

He sat with Hermione and Ron in the library as the 
sun set outside, tearing feverishly through page after 
page of spells, hidden from one another by the 
massive piles of books on the desk in front of each of 
them. Harry’s heart gave a huge leap every time he 
saw the word “water” on a page, but more often than 
not it was merely “Take two pints of water, half a 
pound of shredded mandrake leaves, and a newt ...” 

“I don’t reckon it can be done,” said Ron’s voice flatly 
from the other side of the table. “There’s nothing. 
Nothing. Closest was that thing to dry up puddles and 
ponds, that Drought Charm, but that was nowhere 
near powerful enough to drain the lake.” 

“There must be something,” Hermione muttered, 
moving a candle closer to her. Her eyes were so tired 
she was poring over the tiny print of Olde and 
Forgotten Bewitchments and Charmes with her nose 
about an inch from the page. “They’d never have set a 
task that was undoable.” 

“They have,” said Ron. “Harry, just go down to the 
lake tomorrow, right, stick your head in, yell at the 
merpeople to give back whatever they’ve nicked, and 
see if they chuck it out. Best you can do, mate.” 

Page | 537 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“There’s a way of doing it!” Hermione said crossly. 
“There just has to be!” 

She seemed to be taking the library’s lack of useful 
information on the subject as a personal insult; it had 
never failed her before. 

“I know what I should have done,” said Harry, resting, 
facedown, on Saucy Tricks for Tricky Sorts. “I 
should’ve learned to be an Animagus like Sirius.” 

An Animagus was a wizard who could transform into 
an animal. 

“Yeah, you could’ve turned into a goldfish any time 
you wanted!” said Ron. 

“Or a frog,” yawned Harry. He was exhausted. 

“It takes years to become an Animagus, and then you 
have to register yourself and everything,” said 
Hermione vaguely, now squinting down the index of 
Weird Wizarding Dilemmas and Their Solutions. 
“Professor McGonagall told us, remember ... you’ve 
got to register yourself with the Improper Use of Magic 
Office ... what animal you become, and your 
markings, so you can’t abuse it. ...” 

“Hermione, I was joking,” said Harry wearily. “I know I 
haven’t got a chance of turning into a frog by 
tomorrow morning. ...” 

“Oh this is no use,” Hermione said, snapping shut 
Weird Wizarding Dilemmas. “Who on earth wants to 
make their nose hair grow into ringlets?” 

“I wouldn’t mind,” said Fred Weasley’s voice. “Be a 
talking point, wouldn’t it?” 



Page | 538 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked up. Fred and 
George had just emerged from behind some 
bookshelves. 

“What’re you two doing here?” Ron asked. 

“Looking for you,” said George. “McGonagall wants 
you, Ron. And you, Hermione.” 

“Why?” said Hermione, looking surprised. 

“Dunno ... she was looking a bit grim, though,” said 
Fred. 

“We’re supposed to take you down to her office,” said 
George. 

Ron and Hermione stared at Harry, who felt his 
stomach drop. Was Professor McGonagall about to tell 
Ron and Hermione off? Perhaps she’d noticed how 
much they were helping him, when he ought to be 
working out how to do the task alone? 

“Well meet you back in the common room,” Hermione 
told Harry as she got up to go with Ron — both of 
them looked very anxious. “Bring as many of these 
books as you can, okay?” 

“Right,” said Harry uneasily. 

By eight o’clock, Madam Pince had extinguished all 
the lamps and came to chivvy Harry out of the library. 
Staggering under the weight of as many books as he 
could carry, Harry returned to the Gryffindor common 
room, pulled a table into a corner, and continued to 
search. There was nothing in Madcap Magic for 
Wacky Warlocks . . . nothing in A Guide to Medieval 
Sorcery . . . not one mention of underwater exploits in 
An Anthology of Eighteenth-Century Charms, or in 
Page | 539 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Dreadful Denizens of the Deep, or Powers You Never 
Knew You Had and What to Do with Them Now You’ve 
Wised Up. 

Crookshanks crawled into Harry’s lap and curled up, 
purring deeply. The common room emptied slowly 
around Harry. People kept wishing him luck for the 
next morning in cheery, confident voices like Hagrid’s, 
all of them apparently convinced that he was about to 
pull off another stunning performance like the one he 
had managed in the first task. Harry couldn’t answer 
them, he just nodded, feeling as though there were a 
golfball stuck in his throat. By ten to midnight, he 
was alone in the room with Crookshanks. He had 
searched all the remaining books, and Ron and 
Hermione had not come back. 

It’s over, he told himself. You can’t do it. You’ll just 
have to go down to the lake in the morning and tell 
the judges. ... 

He imagined himself explaining that he couldn’t do 
the task. He pictured Bagman’s look of round-eyed 
surprise, Karkaroff’s satisfied, yellow-toothed smile. 

He could almost hear Fleur Delacour saying “I knew it 
... ’e is too young, ’e is only a little boy.” He saw Malfoy 
flashing his POTTER STINKS badge at the front of the 
crowd, saw Hagrid’s crestfallen, disbelieving face. ... 

Forgetting that Crookshanks was on his lap, Harry 
stood up very suddenly; Crookshanks hissed angrily 
as he landed on the floor, gave Harry a disgusted 
look, and stalked away with his bottlebrush tail in the 
air, but Harry was already hurrying up the spiral 
staircase to his dormitory. . . . He would grab the 
Invisibility Cloak and go back to the library, he’d stay 
there all night if he had to. ... 



Page | 540 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Lumos,” Harry whispered fifteen minutes later as he 
opened the library door. 

Wand tip alight, he crept along the bookshelves, 
pulling down more books — books of hexes and 
charms, books on merpeople and water monsters, 
books on famous witches and wizards, on magical 
inventions, on anything at all that might include one 
passing reference to underwater survival. He carried 
them over to a table, then set to work, searching them 
by the narrow beam of his wand, occasionally 
checking his watch. ... 

One in the morning . . . two in the morning . . . the only 
way he could keep going was to tell himself, over and 
over again, next book ...in the next one . . . the next one 



The mermaid in the painting in the prefects’ 
bathroom was laughing. Harry was bobbing like a 
cork in bubbly water next to her rock, while she held 
his Firebolt over his head. 

“Come and get it!” she giggled maliciously. “Come on, 
jump!” 

“I can’t,” Harry panted, snatching at the Firebolt, and 
struggling not to sink. “Give it to me!” 

But she just poked him painfully in the side with the 
end of the broomstick, laughing at him. 

“That hurts — get off — ouch — ” 

“Harry Potter must wake up, sir!” 

“Stop poking me — ” 



Page | 541 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Dobby must poke Harry Potter, sir, he must wake 
up!” 

Harry opened his eyes. He was still in the library; the 
Invisibility Cloak had slipped off his head as he’d 
slept, and the side of his face was stuck to the pages 
of Where There’s a Wand, There’s a Way. He sat up, 
straightening his glasses, blinking in the bright 
daylight. 

“Harry Potter needs to hurry!” squeaked Dobby. “The 
second task starts in ten minutes, and Harry Potter 



“Ten minutes?” Harry croaked. “Ten — ten minutes?” 

He looked down at his watch. Dobby was right. It was 
twenty past nine. A large, dead weight seemed to fall 
through Harry’s chest into his stomach. 

“Hurry, Harry Potter!” squeaked Dobby, plucking at 
Harry’s sleeve. “You is supposed to be down by the 
lake with the other champions, sir!” 

“It’s too late, Dobby,” Harry said hopelessly. “I’m not 
doing the task, I don’t know how — ” 

“Harry Potter will do the task!” squeaked the elf. 
“Dobby knew Harry had not found the right book, so 
Dobby did it for him!” 

“What?” said Harry. “But you don’t know what the 
second task is — ” 

“Dobby knows, sir! Harry Potter has to go into the 
lake and find his Wheezy — ” 

“Find my what?” 



Page | 542 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“ — and take his Wheezy back from the merpeople!” 



“What’s a Wheezy?” 

“Your Wheezy, sir, your Wheezy — Wheezy who is 
giving Dobby his sweater!” 

Dobby plucked at the shrunken maroon sweater he 
was now wearing over his shorts. 

“What?” Harry gasped. “They’ve got ... they’ve got 
Ron?” 

“The thing Harry Potter will miss most, sir!” squeaked 
Dobby. “ ‘But past an hour — ’ ” 

“ — ‘the prospect’s black,’ ” Harry recited, staring, 
horror-struck, at the elf. “ ‘Too late, it’s gone, it won’t 
come back.’ Dobby — what’ve I got to do?” 

“You has to eat this, sir!” squeaked the elf, and he put 
his hand in the pocket of his shorts and drew out a 
ball of what looked like slimy, grayish-green rat tails. 
“Right before you go into the lake, sir — gillyweed!” 

“What’s it do?” said Harry, staring at the gillyweed. 

“It will make Harry Potter breathe underwater, sir!” 

“Dobby,” said Harry frantically, “listen — are you sure 
about this?” 

He couldn’t quite forget that the last time Dobby had 
tried to “help” him, he had ended up with no bones in 
his right arm. 

“Dobby is quite sure, sir!” said the elf earnestly. 
“Dobby hears things, sir, he is a house-elf, he goes all 
over the castle as he lights the fires and mops the 

Page | 543 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




floors. Dobby heard Professor McGonagall and 
Professor Moody in the staffroom, talking about the 
next task. . . . Dobby cannot let Harry Potter lose his 
Wheezy!” 

Harry’s doubts vanished. Jumping to his feet he 
pulled off the Invisibility Cloak, stuffed it into his bag, 
grabbed the gillyweed, and put it into his pocket, then 
tore out of the library with Dobby at his heels. 

“Dobby is supposed to be in the kitchens, sir!” Dobby 
squealed as they burst into the corridor. “Dobby will 
be missed — good luck, Harry Potter, sir, good luck!” 

“See you later, Dobby!” Harry shouted, and he 
sprinted along the corridor and down the stairs, three 
at a time. 

The entrance hall contained a few last-minute 
stragglers, all leaving the Great Hall after breakfast 
and heading through the double oak doors to watch 
the second task. They stared as Harry flashed past, 
sending Colin and Dennis Creevey flying as he leapt 
down the stone steps and out onto the bright, chilly 
grounds. 

As he pounded down the lawn he saw that the seats 
that had encircled the dragons’ enclosure in 
November were now ranged along the opposite bank, 
rising in stands that were packed to the bursting 
point and reflected in the lake below. The excited 
babble of the crowd echoed strangely across the water 
as Harry ran flat-out around the other side of the lake 
toward the judges, who were sitting at another gold- 
draped table at the water’s edge. Cedric, Fleur, and 
Krum were beside the judges’ table, watching Harry 
sprint toward them. 



Page | 544 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




‘Tm ... here ...” Harry panted, skidding to a halt in 
the mud and accidentally splattering Fleur’s robes. 

“Where have you been?” said a bossy, disapproving 
voice. “The task’s about to start!” 

Harry looked around. Percy Weasley was sitting at the 
judges’ table — Mr. Crouch had failed to turn up 
again. 

“Now, now, Percy!” said Ludo Bagman, who was 
looking intensely relieved to see Harry. “Let him catch 
his breath!” 

Dumbledore smiled at Harry, but Karkaroff and 
Madame Maxime didn’t look at all pleased to see him. 
... It was obvious from the looks on their faces that 
they had thought he wasn’t going to turn up. 

Harry bent over, hands on his knees, gasping for 
breath; he had a stitch in his side that felt as though 
he had a knife between his ribs, but there was no 
time to get rid of it; Ludo Bagman was now moving 
among the champions, spacing them along the bank 
at intervals of ten feet. Harry was on the very end of 
the line, next to Krum, who was wearing swimming 
trunks and was holding his wand ready. 

“All right, Harry?” Bagman whispered as he moved 
Harry a few feet farther away from Krum. “Know what 
you’re going to do?” 

“Yeah,” Harry panted, massaging his ribs. 

Bagman gave Harry’s shoulder a quick squeeze and 
returned to the judges’ table; he pointed his wand at 
his throat as he had done at the World Cup, said, 
“Sonorusl” and his voice boomed out across the dark 
water toward the stands. 

Page | 545 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, all our champions are ready for the second 
task, which will start on my whistle. They have 
precisely an hour to recover what has been taken 
from them. On the count of three, then. One ... two ... 
three!” 

The whistle echoed shrilly in the cold, still air; the 
stands erupted with cheers and applause; without 
looking to see what the other champions were doing, 
Harry pulled off his shoes and socks, pulled the 
handful of gillyweed out of his pocket, stuffed it into 
his mouth, and waded out into the lake. 

It was so cold he felt the skin on his legs searing as 
though this were fire, not icy water. His sodden robes 
weighed him down as he walked in deeper; now the 
water was over his knees, and his rapidly numbing 
feet were slipping over silt and flat, slimy stones. He 
was chewing the gillyweed as hard and fast as he 
could; it felt unpleasantly slimy and rubbery, like 
octopus tentacles. Waist-deep in the freezing water he 
stopped, swallowed, and waited for something to 
happen. 

He could hear laughter in the crowd and knew he 
must look stupid, walking into the lake without 
showing any sign of magical power. The part of him 
that was still dry was covered in goose pimples; half 
immersed in the icy water, a cruel breeze lifting his 
hair, Harry started to shiver violently. He avoided 
looking at the stands; the laughter was becoming 
louder, and there were catcalls and jeering from the 
Slytherins. ... 

Then, quite suddenly, Harry felt as though an 
invisible pillow had been pressed over his mouth and 
nose. He tried to draw breath, but it made his head 
spin; his lungs were empty, and he suddenly felt a 
piercing pain on either side of his neck — 

Page | 546 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry clapped his hands around his throat and felt 
two large slits just below his ears, flapping in the cold 
air. ... He had gills. Without pausing to think, he did 
the only thing that made sense — he flung himself 
forward into the water. 

The first gulp of icy lake water felt like the breath of 
life. His head had stopped spinning; he took another 
great gulp of water and felt it pass smoothly through 
his gills, sending oxygen back to his brain. He 
stretched out his hands in front of him and stared at 
them. They looked green and ghostly under the water, 
and they had become webbed. He twisted around and 
looked at his bare feet — they had become elongated 
and the toes were webbed too: It looked as though he 
had sprouted flippers. 

The water didn’t feel icy anymore either ... on the 
contrary, he felt pleasantly cool and very light. ... 
Harry struck out once more, marveling at how far and 
fast his flipper-like feet propelled him through the 
water, and noticing how clearly he could see, and how 
he no longer seemed to need to blink. He had soon 
swum so far into the lake that he could no longer see 
the bottom. He flipped over and dived into its depths. 

Silence pressed upon his ears as he soared over a 
strange, dark, foggy landscape. He could only see ten 
feet around him, so that as he sped through the water 
new scenes seemed to loom suddenly out of the 
oncoming darkness: forests of rippling, tangled black 
weed, wide plains of mud littered with dull, 
glimmering stones. He swam deeper and deeper, out 
toward the middle of the lake, his eyes wide, staring 
through the eerily gray-lit water around him to the 
shadows beyond, where the water became opaque. 

Small fish flickered past him like silver darts. Once or 
twice he thought he saw something larger moving 

Page | 547 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




ahead of him, but when he got nearer, he discovered 
it to be nothing but a large, blackened log, or a dense 
clump of weed. There was no sign of any of the other 
champions, merpeople, Ron — nor, thankfully, the 
giant squid. 

Light green weed stretched ahead of him as far as he 
could see, two feet deep, like a meadow of very 
overgrown grass. Harry was staring unblinkingly 
ahead of him, trying to discern shapes through the 
gloom . . . and then, without warning, something 
grabbed hold of his ankle. 

Harry twisted his body around and saw a grindylow, a 
small, horned water demon, poking out of the weed, 
its long fingers clutched tightly around Harry’s leg, its 
pointed fangs bared — Harry stuck his webbed hand 
quickly inside his robes and fumbled for his wand. By 
the time he had grasped it, two more grindylows had 
risen out of the weed, had seized handfuls of Harry’s 
robes, and were attempting to drag him down. 

“Relashio\” Harry shouted, except that no sound came 
out. ... A large bubble issued from his mouth, and his 
wand, instead of sending sparks at the grindylows, 
pelted them with what seemed to be a jet of boiling 
water, for where it struck them, angry red patches 
appeared on their green skin. Harry pulled his ankle 
out of the grindylows grip and swam, as fast as he 
could, occasionally sending more jets of hot water 
over his shoulder at random; every now and then he 
felt one of the grindylows snatch at his foot again, 
and he kicked out, hard; finally, he felt his foot 
connect with a horned skull, and looking back, saw 
the dazed grindylow floating away, cross-eyed, while 
its fellows shook their fists at Harry and sank back 
into the weed. 



Page | 548 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry slowed down a little, slipped his wand back 
inside his robes, and looked around, listening again. 
He turned full circle in the water, the silence pressing 
harder than ever against his eardrums. He knew he 
must be even deeper in the lake now, but nothing was 
moving but the rippling weed. 

“How are you getting on?” 

Harry thought he was having a heart attack. He 
whipped around and saw Moaning Myrtle floating 
hazily in front of him, gazing at him through her 
thick, pearly glasses. 

“Myrtle!” Harry tried to shout — but once again, 
nothing came out of his mouth but a very large 
bubble. Moaning Myrtle actually giggled. 

“You want to try over there!” she said, pointing. “I 
won’t come with you. ... I don’t like them much, they 
always chase me when I get too close. ...” 

Harry gave her the thumbs-up to show his thanks 
and set off once more, careful to swim a bit higher 
over the weed to avoid any more grindylows that 
might be lurking there. 

He swam on for what felt like at least twenty minutes. 
He was passing over vast expanses of black mud now, 
which swirled murkily as he disturbed the water. 
Then, at long last, he heard a snatch of haunting 
mersong. 

“An hour long you’ll have to look, 

And to recover what we took ...” 

Harry swam faster and soon saw a large rock emerge 
out of the muddy water ahead. It had paintings of 

Page | 549 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




merpeople on it; they were carrying spears and 
chasing what looked like the giant squid. Harry swam 
on past the rock, following the mersong. 

"... your time’s half gone, so tarry not 

Lest what you seek stays here to rot. ...” 

A cluster of crude stone dwellings stained with algae 
loomed suddenly out of the gloom on all sides. Here 
and there at the dark windows, Harry saw faces ... 
faces that bore no resemblance at all to the painting 
of the mermaid in the prefects’ bathroom. ... 

The merpeople had grayish skin and long, wild, dark 
green hair. Their eyes were yellow, as were their 
broken teeth, and they wore thick ropes of pebbles 
around their necks. They leered at Harry as he swam 
past; one or two of them emerged from their caves to 
watch him better, their powerful, silver fish tails 
beating the water, spears clutched in their hands. 

Harry sped on, staring around, and soon the 
dwellings became more numerous; there were 
gardens of weed around some of them, and he even 
saw a pet grindylow tied to a stake outside one door. 
Merpeople were emerging on all sides now, watching 
him eagerly, pointing at his webbed hands and gills, 
talking behind their hands to one another. Harry sped 
around a corner and a very strange sight met his 
eyes. 

A whole crowd of merpeople was floating in front of 
the houses that lined what looked like a mer-version 
of a village square. A choir of merpeople was singing 
in the middle, calling the champions toward them, 
and behind them rose a crude sort of statue; a 
gigantic merperson hewn from a boulder. Four people 
were bound tightly to the tail of the stone merperson. 
Page | 550 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Ron was tied between Hermione and Cho Chang. 
There was also a girl who looked no older than eight, 
whose clouds of silvery hair made Harry feel sure that 
she was Fleur Delacour’s sister. All four of them 
appeared to be in a very deep sleep. Their heads were 
lolling onto their shoulders, and fine streams of 
bubbles kept issuing from their mouths. 

Harry sped toward the hostages, half expecting the 
merpeople to lower their spears and charge at him, 
but they did nothing. The ropes of weed tying the 
hostages to the statue were thick, slimy, and very 
strong. For a fleeting second he thought of the knife 
Sirius had bought him for Christmas — locked in his 
trunk in the castle a quarter of a mile away, no use to 
him whatsoever. 

He looked around. Many of the merpeople 
surrounding them were carrying spears. He swam 
swiftly toward a seven-foot-tall merman with a long 
green beard and a choker of shark fangs and tried to 
mime a request to borrow the spear. The merman 
laughed and shook his head. 

“We do not help,” he said in a harsh, croaky voice. 

“Come ON\” Harry said fiercely (but only bubbles 
issued from his mouth), and he tried to pull the spear 
away from the merman, but the merman yanked it 
back, still shaking his head and laughing. 

Harry swirled around, staring about. Something 
sharp ... anything ... 

There were rocks littering the lake bottom. He dived 
and snatched up a particularly jagged one and 
returned to the statue. He began to hack at the ropes 
binding Ron, and after several minutes’ hard work, 
they broke apart. Ron floated, unconscious, a few 
Page | 551 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




inches above the lake bottom, drifting a little in the 
ebb of the water. 

Harry looked around. There was no sign of any of the 
other champions. What were they playing at? Why 
didn’t they hurry up? He turned back to Hermione, 
raised the jagged rock, and began to hack at her 
bindings too — 

At once, several pairs of strong gray hands seized 
him. Half a dozen mermen were pulling him away 
from Hermione, shaking their green-haired heads, 
and laughing. 

“You take your own hostage,” one of them said to 
him. “Leave the others ...” 

“No way!” said Harry furiously — but only two large 
bubbles came out. 

“Your task is to retrieve your own friend . . . leave the 
others ...” 

“She’s my friend too!” Harry yelled, gesturing toward 
Hermione, an enormous silver bubble emerging 
soundlessly from his lips. “And I don’t want them to 
die either!” 

Cho’s head was on Hermione ’s shoulder; the small 
silver-haired girl was ghostly green and pale. Harry 
struggled to fight off the mermen, but they laughed 
harder than ever, holding him back. Harry looked 
wildly around. Where were the other champions? 
Would he have time to take Ron to the surface and 
come back down for Hermione and the others? Would 
he be able to find them again? He looked down at his 
watch to see how much time was left — it had 
stopped working. 



Page | 552 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




But then the merpeople around him pointed excitedly 
over his head. Harry looked up and saw Cedric 
swimming toward them. There was an enormous 
bubble around his head, which made his features 
look oddly wide and stretched. 

“Got lost!” he mouthed, looking panic-stricken. “Fleur 
and Krum’re coming now!” 

Feeling enormously relieved, Harry watched Cedric 
pull a knife out of his pocket and cut Cho free. He 
pulled her upward and out of sight. 

Harry looked around, waiting. Where were Fleur and 
Krum? Time was getting short, and according to the 
song, the hostages would be lost after an hour. . . . 

The merpeople started screeching animatedly. Those 
holding Harry loosened their grip, staring behind 
them. Harry turned and saw something monstrous 
cutting through the water toward them: a human 
body in swimming trunks with the head of a shark. . . . 
It was Krum. He appeared to have transfigured 
himself — but badly. 

The shark-man swam straight to Hermione and began 
snapping and biting at her ropes; the trouble was that 
Krum’s new teeth were positioned very awkwardly for 
biting anything smaller than a dolphin, and Harry 
was quite sure that if Krum wasn’t careful, he was 
going to rip Hermione in half. Darting forward, Harry 
hit Krum hard on the shoulder and held up the 
jagged stone. Krum seized it and began to cut 
Hermione free. Within seconds, he had done it; he 
grabbed Hermione around the waist, and without a 
backward glance, began to rise rapidly with her 
toward the surface. 



Page | 553 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Now what? Harry thought desperately. If he could be 
sure that Fleur was coming. ... But still no sign. 

There was nothing to be done except . . . 

He snatched up the stone, which Krum had dropped, 
but the mermen now closed in around Ron and the 
little girl, shaking their heads at him. Harry pulled 
out his wand. 

“Get out of the way!” 

Only bubbles flew out of his mouth, but he had the 
distinct impression that the mermen had understood 
him, because they suddenly stopped laughing. Their 
yellowish eyes were fixed upon Harry’s wand, and 
they looked scared. There might be a lot more of them 
than there were of him, but Harry could tell, by the 
looks on their faces, that they knew no more magic 
than the giant squid did. 

“You’ve got until three!” Harry shouted; a great 
stream of bubbles burst from him, but he held up 
three fingers to make sure they got the message. “One 
...” (he put down a finger) “two ...” (he put down a 
second one) — 

They scattered. Harry darted forward and began to 
hack at the ropes binding the small girl to the statue, 
and at last she was free. He seized the little girl 
around the waist, grabbed the neck of Ron’s robes, 
and kicked off from the bottom. 

It was very slow work. He could no longer use his 
webbed hands to propel himself forward; he worked 
his flippers furiously, but Ron and Fleur’s sister were 
like potato-filled sacks dragging him back down. ... 

He fixed his eyes skyward, though he knew he must 
still be very deep, the water above him was so dark. 

Page | 554 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Merpeople were rising with him. He could see them 
swirling around him with ease, watching him struggle 
through the water. ... Would they pull him back down 
to the depths when the time was up? Did they 
perhaps eat humans? Harry’s legs were seizing up 
with the effort to keep swimming; his shoulders were 
aching horribly with the effort of dragging Ron and 
the girl. ... 

He was drawing breath with extreme difficulty. He 
could feel pain on the sides of his neck again ... he 
was becoming very aware of how wet the water was in 
his mouth . . . yet the darkness was definitely thinning 
now ... he could see daylight above him. ... 

He kicked hard with his flippers and discovered that 
they were nothing more than feet . . . water was 
flooding through his mouth into his lungs ... he was 
starting to feel dizzy, but he knew light and air were 
only ten feet above him ... he had to get there ... he 
had to . . . 

Harry kicked his legs so hard and fast it felt as 
though his muscles were screaming in protest; his 
very brain felt waterlogged, he couldn’t breathe, he 
needed oxygen, he had to keep going, he could not 
stop — 

And then he felt his head break the surface of the 
lake; wonderful, cold, clear air was making his wet 
face sting; he gulped it down, feeling as though he 
had never breathed properly before, and, panting, 
pulled Ron and the little girl up with him. All around 
him, wild, green-haired heads were emerging out of 
the water with him, but they were smiling at him. 

The crowd in the stands was making a great deal of 
noise; shouting and screaming, they all seemed to be 
on their feet; Harry had the impression they thought 

Page | 555 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




that Ron and the little girl might be dead, but they 
were wrong ... both of them had opened their eyes; 
the girl looked scared and confused, but Ron merely 
expelled a great spout of water, blinked in the bright 
light, turned to Harry, and said, “Wet, this, isn’t it?” 
Then he spotted Fleur’s sister. “What did you bring 
her for?” 

“Fleur didn’t turn up, I couldn’t leave her,” Harry 
panted. 

“Harry, you prat,” said Ron, “you didn’t take that song 
thing seriously, did you? Dumbledore wouldn’t have 
let any of us drown!” 

“The song said — ” 

“It was only to make sure you got back inside the time 
limit!” said Ron. “I hope you didn’t waste time down 
there acting the hero!” 

Harry felt both stupid and annoyed. It was all very 
well for Ron; he’d been asleep, he hadn’t felt how 
eerie it was down in the lake, surrounded by spear- 
carrying merpeople who’d looked more than capable 
of murder. 

“C’mon,” Harry said shortly, “help me with her, I don’t 
think she can swim very well.” 

They pulled Fleur’s sister through the water, back 
toward the bank where the judges stood watching, 
twenty merpeople accompanying them like a guard of 
honor, singing their horrible screechy songs. 

Harry could see Madam Pomfrey fussing over 
Hermione, Krum, Cedric, and Cho, all of whom were 
wrapped in thick blankets. Dumbledore and Ludo 
Bagman stood beaming at Harry and Ron from the 

Page | 556 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




bank as they swam nearer, but Percy, who looked 
very white and somehow much younger than usual, 
came splashing out to meet them. Meanwhile 
Madame Maxime was trying to restrain Fleur 
Delacour, who was quite hysterical, fighting tooth and 
nail to return to the water. 

“Gabrielle! Gabrielle\ Is she alive ? Is she ’urt?” 

“She’s fine!” Harry tried to tell her, but he was so 
exhausted he could hardly talk, let alone shout. 

Percy seized Ron and was dragging him back to the 
bank (“Gerroff, Percy, I’m all right!”); Dumbledore and 
Bagman were pulling Harry upright; Fleur had broken 
free of Madame Maxime and was hugging her sister. 

“It was ze grindylows . . . zey attacked me ... oh 
Gabrielle, I thought ... I thought ...” 

“Come here, you,” said Madam Pomfrey. She seized 
Harry and pulled him over to Hermione and the 
others, wrapped him so tightly in a blanket that he 
felt as though he were in a straitjacket, and forced a 
measure of very hot potion down his throat. Steam 
gushed out of his ears. 

“Harry, well done!” Hermione cried. “You did it, you 
found out how all by yourself!” 

“Well — ” said Harry. He would have told her about 
Dobby, but he had just noticed Karkaroff watching 
him. He was the only judge who had not left the table; 
the only judge not showing signs of pleasure and 
relief that Harry, Ron, and Fleur’s sister had got back 
safely. “Yeah, that’s right,” said Harry, raising his 
voice slightly so that Karkaroff could hear him. 



Page | 557 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“You haff a water beetle in your hair, Herm-own- 
ninny,” said Krum. Harry had the impression that 
Krum was drawing her attention back onto himself; 
perhaps to remind her that he had just rescued her 
from the lake, but Hermione brushed away the beetle 
impatiently and said, “You’re well outside the time 
limit, though, Harry. . . . Did it take you ages to find 
us?” 

“No ... I found you okay. ...” 

Harry’s feeling of stupidity was growing. Now he was 
out of the water, it seemed perfectly clear that 
Dumbledore’s safety precautions wouldn’t have 
permitted the death of a hostage just because their 
champion hadn’t turned up. Why hadn’t he just 
grabbed Ron and gone? He would have been first 
back. ... Cedric and Krum hadn’t wasted time 
worrying about anyone else; they hadn’t taken the 
mersong seriously. ... 

Dumbledore was crouching at the water’s edge, deep 
in conversation with what seemed to be the chief 
merperson, a particularly wild and ferocious-looking 
female. He was making the same sort of screechy 
noises that the merpeople made when they were 
above water; clearly, Dumbledore could speak 
Mermish. Finally he straightened up, turned to his 
fellow judges, and said, “A conference before we give 
the marks, I think.” 

The judges went into a huddle. Madam Pomfrey had 
gone to rescue Ron from Percy’s clutches; she led him 
over to Harry and the others, gave him a blanket and 
some Pepperup Potion, then went to fetch Fleur and 
her sister. Fleur had many cuts on her face and arms 
and her robes were torn, but she didn’t seem to care, 
nor would she allow Madam Pomfrey to clean them. 



Page | 558 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Look after Gabrielle,” she told her, and then she 
turned to Harry. “You saved ’er,” she said 
breathlessly. “Even though she was not your ’ostage.” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, who was now heartily wishing 
he’d left all three girls tied to the statue. 

Fleur bent down, kissed Harry twice on each cheek 
(he felt his face burn and wouldn’t have been 
surprised if steam was coming out of his ears again), 
then said to Ron, “And you too — you ’elped — ” 

“Yeah,” said Ron, looking extremely hopeful, “yeah, a 
bit — ” 



Fleur swooped down on him too and kissed him. 
Hermione looked simply furious, but just then, Ludo 
Bagman’s magically magnified voice boomed out 
beside them, making them all jump, and causing the 
crowd in the stands to go very quiet. 

“Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached our decision. 
Merchieftainess Murcus has told us exactly what 
happened at the bottom of the lake, and we have 
therefore decided to award marks out of fifty for each 
of the champions, as follows. ... 

“Fleur Delacour, though she demonstrated excellent 
use of the Bubble-Head Charm, was attacked by 
grindylows as she approached her goal, and failed to 
retrieve her hostage. We award her twenty-five 
points.” 

Applause from the stands. 

“I deserved zero,” said Fleur throatily, shaking her 
magnificent head. 



Page | 559 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Cedric Diggory, who also used the Bubble-Head 
Charm, was first to return with his hostage, though 
he returned one minute outside the time limit of an 
hour.” Enormous cheers from the Hufflepuffs in the 
crowd; Harry saw Cho give Cedric a glowing look. “We 
therefore award him forty-seven points.” 

Harry’s heart sank. If Cedric had been outside the 
time limit, he most certainly had been. 

“Viktor Krum used an incomplete form of 
Transfiguration, which was nevertheless effective, and 
was second to return with his hostage. We award him 
forty points.” 

Karkaroff clapped particularly hard, looking very 
superior. 

“Harry Potter used gillyweed to great effect,” Bagman 
continued. “He returned last, and well outside the 
time limit of an hour. However, the Merchieftainess 
informs us that Mr. Potter was first to reach the 
hostages, and that the delay in his return was due to 
his determination to return all hostages to safety, not 
merely his own.” 

Ron and Hermione both gave Harry half-exasperated, 
half-commiserating looks. 

“Most of the judges,” and here, Bagman gave 
Karkaroff a very nasty look, “feel that this shows 
moral fiber and merits full marks. However ... Mr. 
Potter’s score is forty-five points.” 

Harry’s stomach leapt — he was now tying for first 
place with Cedric. Ron and Hermione, caught by 
surprise, stared at Harry, then laughed and started 
applauding hard with the rest of the crowd. 



Page | 560 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“There you go, Harry!” Ron shouted over the noise. 
“You weren’t being thick after all — you were showing 
moral fiber!” 

Fleur was clapping very hard too, but Krum didn’t 
look happy at all. He attempted to engage Hermione 
in conversation again, but she was too busy cheering 
Harry to listen. 

“The third and final task will take place at dusk on 
the twenty-fourth of June,” continued Bagman. “The 
champions will be notified of what is coming precisely 
one month beforehand. Thank you all for your 
support of the champions.” 

It was over, Harry thought dazedly, as Madam 
Pomfrey began herding the champions and hostages 
back to the castle to get into dry clothes ... it was 
over, he had got through ... he didn’t have to worry 
about anything now until June the twenty-fourth. ... 

Next time he was in Hogsmeade, Harry decided as he 
walked back up the stone steps into the castle, he 
was going to buy Dobby a pair of socks for every day 
of the year. 



Page | 561 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






PADFOOT RETURNS 

One of the best things about the aftermath of the 
second task was that everybody was very keen to hear 
details of what had happened down in the lake, which 
meant that Ron was getting to share Harry’s limelight 
for once. Harry noticed that Ron’s version of events 
changed subtly with every retelling. At first, he gave 
what seemed to be the truth; it tallied with 
Hermione’s story, anyway — Dumbledore had put all 
the hostages into a bewitched sleep in Professor 
McGonagall’s office, first assuring them that they 
would be quite safe, and would awake when they were 
back above the water. One week later, however, Ron 
was telling a thrilling tale of kidnap in which he 
struggled single-handedly against fifty heavily armed 
merpeople who had to beat him into submission 
before tying him up. 

“But I had my wand hidden up my sleeve,” he assured 
Padma Patil, who seemed to be a lot keener on Ron 
now that he was getting so much attention and was 
making a point of talking to him every time they 



Page | 562 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



passed in the corridors. “I could’ve taken those mer- 
idiots any time I wanted.” 

“What were you going to do, snore at them?” said 
Hermione waspishly. People had been teasing her so 
much about being the thing that Viktor Krum would 
most miss that she was in a rather tetchy mood. 

Ron’s ears went red, and thereafter, he reverted to the 
bewitched sleep version of events. 

As they entered March the weather became drier, but 
cruel winds skinned their hands and faces every time 
they went out onto the grounds. There were delays in 
the post because the owls kept being blown off 
course. The brown owl that Harry had sent to Sirius 
with the dates of the Hogsmeade weekend turned up 
at breakfast on Friday morning with half its feathers 
sticking up the wrong way; Harry had no sooner torn 
off Sirius’s reply than it took flight, clearly afraid it 
was going to be sent outside again. 

Sirius’s letter was almost as short as the previous 
one. 

Be at stile at end of road out of Hogsmeade (past 
Dervish and Banges) at two o’clock on Saturday 
afternoon. Bring as much food as you can. 

“He hasn’t come back to Hogsmeade?” said Ron 
incredulously. 

“It looks like it, doesn’t it?” said Hermione. 

“I can’t believe him,” said Harry tensely, “if he’s 
caught ...” 



Page | 563 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Made it so far, though, hasn’t he?” said Ron. “And 
it’s not like the place is swarming with dementors 
anymore.” 

Harry folded up the letter, thinking. If he was honest 
with himself, he really wanted to see Sirius again. He 
therefore approached the final lesson of the afternoon 
— double Potions — feeling considerably more 
cheerful than he usually did when descending the 
steps to the dungeons. 

Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle were standing in a huddle 
outside the classroom door with Pansy Parkinson’s 
gang of Slytherin girls. All of them were looking at 
something Harry couldn’t see and sniggering heartily. 
Pansy’s pug-like face peered excitedly around Goyle ’s 
broad back as Harry, Ron, and Hermione approached. 

“There they are, there they are!” she giggled, and the 
knot of Slytherins broke apart. Harry saw that Pansy 
had a magazine in her hands — Witch Weekly. The 
moving picture on the front showed a curly-haired 
witch who was smiling toothily and pointing at a large 
sponge cake with her wand. 

“You might find something to interest you in there, 
Granger!” Pansy said loudly, and she threw the 
magazine at Hermione, who caught it, looking 
startled. At that moment, the dungeon door opened, 
and Snape beckoned them all inside. 

Hermione, Harry, and Ron headed for a table at the 
back of the dungeon as usual. Once Snape had 
turned his back on them to write up the ingredients 
of today’s potion on the blackboard, Hermione hastily 
rifled through the magazine under the desk. At last, 
in the center pages, Hermione found what they were 
looking for. Harry and Ron leaned in closer. A color 
photograph of Harry headed a short piece entitled: 
Page | 564 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry Potter’s Secret Heartache 



A boy like no other, perhaps — yet a boy suffering all 
the usual pangs of adolescence, writes Rita Skeeter. 
Deprived of love since the tragic demise of his parents, 
fourteen-year-old Harry Potter thought he had found 
solace in his steady girlfriend at Hogwarts, Muggle- 
born Hermione Granger. Little did he know that he 
would shortly be suffering yet another emotional blow 
in a life already littered with personal loss. 

Miss Granger, a plain but ambitious girl, seems to 
have a taste for famous wizards that Harry alone 
cannot satisfy. Since the arrival at Hogwarts of Viktor 
Krum, Bulgarian Seeker and hero of the last World 
Quidditch Cup, Miss Granger has been toying with 
both boys’ affections. Krum, who is openly smitten 
with the devious Miss Granger, has already invited 
her to visit him in Bulgaria over the summer holidays, 
and insists that he has “never felt this way about any 
other girl.” 

However, it might not be Miss Granger’s doubtful 
natural charms that have captured these unfortunate 
boys’ interest. 

“She’s really ugly,” says Pansy Parkinson, a pretty 
and vivacious fourth-year student, “but she’d be well 
up to making a Love Potion, she’s quite brainy. I 
think that’s how she’s doing it.” 

Love Potions are, of course, banned at Hogwarts, and 
no doubt Albus Dumbledore will want to investigate 
these claims. In the meantime, Harry Potter’s well- 
wishers must hope that, next time, he bestows his 
heart on a worthier candidate. 

“I told you!” Ron hissed at Hermione as she stared 
down at the article. “I told you not to annoy Rita 

Page | 565 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Skeeter! She’s made you out to be some sort of — of 
scarlet woman!” 

Hermione stopped looking astonished and snorted 
with laughter. “ Scarlet woman?” she repeated, 
shaking with suppressed giggles as she looked 
around at Ron. 

“It’s what my mum calls them,” Ron muttered, his 
ears going red. 

“If that’s the best Rita can do, she’s losing her touch,” 
said Hermione, still giggling, as she threw Witch 
Weekly onto the empty chair beside her. “What a pile 
of old rubbish.” 

She looked over at the Slytherins, who were all 
watching her and Harry closely across the room to see 
if they had been upset by the article. Hermione gave 
them a sarcastic smile and a wave, and she, Harry, 
and Ron started unpacking the ingredients they 
would need for their Wit-Sharpening Potion. 

“There’s something funny, though,” said Hermione 
ten minutes later, holding her pestle suspended over 
a bowl of scarab beetles. “How could Rita Skeeter 
have known ... ?” 

“Known what?” said Ron quickly. “You haven’t been 
mixing up Love Potions, have you?” 

“Don’t be stupid,” Hermione snapped, starting to 
pound up her beetles again. “No, it’s just ... how did 
she know Viktor asked me to visit him over the 
summer?” 

Hermione blushed scarlet as she said this and 
determinedly avoided Ron’s eyes. 



Page | 566 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“What?” said Ron, dropping his pestle with a loud 
clunk. 



“He asked me right after he’d pulled me out of the 
lake,” Hermione muttered. “After he’d got rid of his 
shark’s head. Madam Pomfrey gave us both blankets 
and then he sort of pulled me away from the judges 
so they wouldn’t hear, and he said, if I wasn’t doing 
anything over the summer, would I like to — ” 

“And what did you say?” said Ron, who had picked up 
his pestle and was grinding it on the desk, a good six 
inches from his bowl, because he was looking at 
Hermione. 

“And he did say he’d never felt the same way about 
anyone else,” Hermione went on, going so red now 
that Harry could almost feel the heat coming from 
her, “but how could Rita Skeeter have heard him? 

She wasn’t there ... or was she? Maybe she has got an 
Invisibility Cloak; maybe she sneaked onto the 
grounds to watch the second task. ...” 

“And what did you say?” Ron repeated, pounding his 
pestle down so hard that it dented the desk. 

“Well, I was too busy seeing whether you and Harry 
were okay to — ” 

“Fascinating though your social life undoubtedly is, 
Miss Granger,” said an icy voice right behind them, 
and all three of them jumped, “I must ask you not to 
discuss it in my class. Ten points from Gryffindor.” 

Snape had glided over to their desk while they were 
talking. The whole class was now looking around at 
them; Malfoy took the opportunity to flash POTTER 
STINKS across the dungeon at Harry. 



Page | 567 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Ah . . . reading magazines under the table as well?” 
Snape added, snatching up the copy of Witch Weekly. 
“A further ten points from Gryffindor ... oh but of 
course ...” Snape’s black eyes glittered as they fell on 
Rita Skeeter’s article. “Potter has to keep up with his 
press cuttings. ...” 

The dungeon rang with the Slytherins’ laughter, and 
an unpleasant smile curled Snape’s thin mouth. To 
Harry’s fury, he began to read the article aloud. 

“ ‘Harry Potter’s Secret Heartache . . . dear, dear, 

Potter, what’s ailing you now? ‘A boy like no other, 
perhaps ...’ ” 

Harry could feel his face burning. Snape was pausing 
at the end of every sentence to allow the Slytherins a 
hearty laugh. The article sounded ten times worse 
when read by Snape. Even Hermione was blushing 
scarlet now. 

“ ‘. . . Harry Potter’s well-wishers must hope that, next 
time, he bestows his heart upon a worthier candidate.’ 
How very touching,” sneered Snape, rolling up the 
magazine to continued gales of laughter from the 
Slytherins. “Well, I think I had better separate the 
three of you, so you can keep your minds on your 
potions rather than on your tangled love lives. 
Weasley, you stay here. Miss Granger, over there, 
beside Miss Parkinson. Potter — that table in front of 
my desk. Move. Now.” 

Furious, Harry threw his ingredients and his bag into 
his cauldron and dragged it up to the front of the 
dungeon to the empty table. Snape followed, sat down 
at his desk and watched Harry unload his cauldron. 
Determined not to look at Snape, Harry resumed the 
mashing of his scarab beetles, imagining each one to 
have Snape’s face. 

Page | 568 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“All this press attention seems to have inflated your 
already over-large head, Potter,” said Snape quietly, 
once the rest of the class had settled down again. 

Harry didn’t answer. He knew Snape was trying to 
provoke him; he had done this before. No doubt he 
was hoping for an excuse to take a round fifty points 
from Gryffindor before the end of the class. 

“You might be laboring under the delusion that the 
entire wizarding world is impressed with you,” Snape 
went on, so quietly that no one else could hear him 
(Harry continued to pound his scarab beetles, even 
though he had already reduced them to a very fine 
powder), “but I don’t care how many times your 
picture appears in the papers. To me, Potter, you are 
nothing but a nasty little boy who considers rules to 
be beneath him.” 

Harry tipped the powdered beetles into his cauldron 
and started cutting up his ginger roots. His hands 
were shaking slightly out of anger, but he kept his 
eyes down, as though he couldn’t hear what Snape 
was saying to him. 

“So I give you fair warning, Potter,” Snape continued 
in a softer and more dangerous voice, “pint-sized 
celebrity or not — if I catch you breaking into my 
office one more time — ” 

“I haven’t been anywhere near your office!” said Harry 
angrily, forgetting his feigned deafness. 

“Don’t lie to me,” Snape hissed, his fathomless black 
eyes boring into Harry’s. “Boomslang skin. Gillyweed. 
Both come from my private stores, and I know who 
stole them.” 



Page | 569 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry stared back at Snape, determined not to blink 
or to look guilty. In truth, he hadn’t stolen either of 
these things from Snape. Hermione had taken the 
boomslang skin back in their second year — they had 
needed it for the Polyjuice Potion — and while Snape 
had suspected Harry at the time, he had never been 
able to prove it. Dobby, of course, had stolen the 
gillyweed. 

“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” Harry lied 
coldly. 

“You were out of bed on the night my office was 
broken into!” Snape hissed. “I know it, Potter! Now, 
Mad-Eye Moody might have joined your fan club, but 
I will not tolerate your behavior! One more nighttime 
stroll into my office, Potter, and you will pay!” 

“Right,” said Harry coolly, turning back to his ginger 
roots. “I’ll bear that in mind if I ever get the urge to go 
in there.” 

Snape’s eyes flashed. He plunged a hand into the 
inside of his black robes. For one wild moment, Harry 
thought Snape was about to pull out his wand and 
curse him — then he saw that Snape had drawn out a 
small crystal bottle of a completely clear potion. Harry 
stared at it. 

“Do you know what this is, Potter?” Snape said, his 
eyes glittering dangerously again. 

“No,” said Harry, with complete honesty this time. 

“It is Veritaserum — a Truth Potion so powerful that 
three drops would have you spilling your innermost 
secrets for this entire class to hear,” said Snape 
viciously. “Now, the use of this potion is controlled by 
very strict Ministry guidelines. But unless you watch 
Page | 570 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




your step, you might just find that my hand slips” — 
he shook the crystal bottle slightly — “right over your 
evening pumpkin juice. And then, Potter ... then we’ll 
find out whether you’ve been in my office or not.” 

Harry said nothing. He turned back to his ginger 
roots once more, picked up his knife, and started 
slicing them again. He didn’t like the sound of that 
Truth Potion at all, nor would he put it past Snape to 
slip him some. He repressed a shudder at the thought 
of what might come spilling out of his mouth if Snape 
did it . . . quite apart from landing a whole lot of people 
in trouble — Hermione and Dobby for a start — there 
were all the other things he was concealing . . . like the 
fact that he was in contact with Sirius . . . and — his 
insides squirmed at the thought — how he felt about 
Cho. ... He tipped his ginger roots into the cauldron 
too, and wondered whether he ought to take a leaf out 
of Moody’s book and start drinking only from a 
private hip flask. 

There was a knock on the dungeon door. 

“Enter,” said Snape in his usual voice. 

The class looked around as the door opened. 

Professor Karkaroff came in. Everyone watched him 
as he walked up toward Snape ’s desk. He was 
twisting his finger around his goatee and looking 
agitated. 

“We need to talk,” said Karkaroff abruptly when he 
had reached Snape. He seemed so determined that 
nobody should hear what he was saying that he was 
barely opening his lips; it was as though he were a 
rather poor ventriloquist. Harry kept his eyes on his 
ginger roots, listening hard. 



Page | 571 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I’ll talk to you after my lesson, Karkaroff,” Snape 
muttered, but Karkaroff interrupted him. 

“I want to talk now, while you can’t slip off, Severus. 
You’ve been avoiding me.” 

“After the lesson,” Snape snapped. 

Under the pretext of holding up a measuring cup to 
see if he’d poured out enough armadillo bile, Harry 
sneaked a sidelong glance at the pair of them. 
Karkaroff looked extremely worried, and Snape looked 
angry. 

Karkaroff hovered behind Snape ’s desk for the rest of 
the double period. He seemed intent on preventing 
Snape from slipping away at the end of class. Keen to 
hear what Karkaroff wanted to say, Harry deliberately 
knocked over his bottle of armadillo bile with two 
minutes to go to the bell, which gave him an excuse 
to duck down behind his cauldron and mop up while 
the rest of the class moved noisily toward the door. 

“What’s so urgent?” he heard Snape hiss at Karkaroff. 

“This,” said Karkaroff, and Harry, peering around the 
edge of his cauldron, saw Karkaroff pull up the left- 
hand sleeve of his robe and show Snape something on 
his inner forearm. 

“Well?” said Karkaroff, still making every effort not to 
move his lips. “Do you see? It’s never been this clear, 
never since — ” 

“Put it away!” snarled Snape, his black eyes sweeping 
the classroom. 

“But you must have noticed — ” Karkaroff began in an 
agitated voice. 

Page | 572 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“We can talk later, Karkaroff!” spat Snape. “Potter! 
What are you doing?” 

“Clearing up my armadillo bile, Professor,” said Harry 
innocently, straightening up and showing Snape the 
sodden rag he was holding. 

Karkaroff turned on his heel and strode out of the 
dungeon. He looked both worried and angry. Not 
wanting to remain alone with an exceptionally angry 
Snape, Harry threw his books and ingredients back 
into his bag and left at top speed to tell Ron and 
Hermione what he had just witnessed. 

They left the castle at noon the next day to find a 
weak silver sun shining down upon the grounds. The 
weather was milder than it had been all year, and by 
the time they arrived in Hogsmeade, all three of them 
had taken off their cloaks and thrown them over their 
shoulders. The food Sirius had told them to bring was 
in Harry’s bag; they had sneaked a dozen chicken 
legs, a loaf of bread, and a flask of pumpkin juice 
from the lunch table. 

They went into Gladrags Wizardwear to buy a present 
for Dobby, where they had fun selecting the most 
lurid socks they could find, including a pair patterned 
with flashing gold and silver stars, and another that 
screamed loudly when they became too smelly. Then, 
at half past one, they made their way up the High 
Street, past Dervish and Banges, and out toward the 
edge of the village. 

Harry had never been in this direction before. The 
winding lane was leading them out into the wild 
countryside around Hogsmeade. The cottages were 
fewer here, and their gardens larger; they were 
walking toward the foot of the mountain in whose 
shadow Hogsmeade lay. Then they turned a corner 
Page | 573 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




and saw a stile at the end of the lane. Waiting for 
them, its front paws on the topmost bar, was a very 
large, shaggy black dog, which was carrying some 
newspapers in its mouth and looking very familiar. . . . 

“Hello, Sirius,” said Harry when they had reached 
him. 

The black dog sniffed Harry’s bag eagerly, wagged its 
tail once, then turned and began to trot away from 
them across the scrubby patch of ground that rose to 
meet the rocky foot of the mountain. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione climbed over the stile and followed. 

Sirius led them to the very foot of the mountain, 
where the ground was covered with boulders and 
rocks. It was easy for him, with his four paws, but 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione were soon out of breath. 
They followed Sirius higher, up onto the mountain 
itself. For nearly half an hour they climbed a steep, 
winding, and stony path, following Sirius’s wagging 
tail, sweating in the sun, the shoulder straps of 
Harry’s bag cutting into his shoulders. 

Then, at last, Sirius slipped out of sight, and when 
they reached the place where he had vanished, they 
saw a narrow fissure in the rock. They squeezed into 
it and found themselves in a cool, dimly lit cave. 
Tethered at the end of it, one end of his rope around a 
large rock, was Buckbeak the hippogriff. Half gray 
horse, half giant eagle, Buckbeak’s fierce orange eye 
flashed at the sight of them. All three of them bowed 
low to him, and after regarding them imperiously for a 
moment, Buckbeak bent his scaly front knees and 
allowed Hermione to rush forward and stroke his 
feathery neck. Harry, however, was looking at the 
black dog, which had just turned into his godfather. 



Page | 574 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Sirius was wearing ragged gray robes; the same ones 
he had been wearing when he had left Azkaban. His 
black hair was longer than it had been when he had 
appeared in the fire, and it was untidy and matted 
once more. He looked very thin. 

“Chicken!” he said hoarsely after removing the old 
Daily Prophets from his mouth and throwing them 
down onto the cave floor. 

Harry pulled open his bag and handed over the 
bundle of chicken legs and bread. 

“Thanks,” said Sirius, opening it, grabbing a 
drumstick, sitting down on the cave floor, and tearing 
off a large chunk with his teeth. “I’ve been living off 
rats mostly. Can’t steal too much food from 
Hogsmeade; I’d draw attention to myself.” 

He grinned up at Harry, but Harry returned the grin 
only reluctantly. 

“What’re you doing here, Sirius?” he said. 

“Fulfilling my duty as godfather,” said Sirius, gnawing 
on the chicken bone in a very doglike way. “Don’t 
worry about it, I’m pretending to be a lovable stray.” 

He was still grinning, but seeing the anxiety in 
Harry’s face, said more seriously, “I want to be on the 
spot. Your last letter ... well, let’s just say things are 
getting fishier. I’ve been stealing the paper every time 
someone throws one out, and by the looks of things, 
I’m not the only one who’s getting worried.” 

He nodded at the yellowing Daily Prophets on the cave 
floor, and Ron picked them up and unfolded them. 
Harry, however, continued to stare at Sirius. 



Page | 575 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“What if they catch you? What if you’re seen?” 

“You three and Dumbledore are the only ones around 
here who know I’m an Animagus,” said Sirius, 
shrugging, and continuing to devour the chicken leg. 

Ron nudged Harry and passed him the Daily 
Prophets. There were two: The first bore the headline 
Mystery Illness of Bartemius Crouch, the second, 
Ministry Witch Still Missing — Minister of Magic Now 
Personally Involved. 

Harry scanned the story about Crouch. Phrases 
jumped out at him: hasn’t been seen in public since 
November ... house appears deserted ... St. Mungo’s 
Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries decline 
comment . . . Ministry refuses to confirm rumors of 
critical illness. . . . 

“They’re making it sound like he’s dying,” said Harry 
slowly. “But he can’t be that ill if he managed to get 
up here. ...” 

“My brother’s Crouch’s personal assistant,” Ron 
informed Sirius. “He says Crouch is suffering from 
overwork.” 

“Mind you, he did look ill, last time I saw him up 
close,” said Harry slowly, still reading the story. “The 
night my name came out of the goblet. ...” 

“Getting his comeuppance for sacking Winky, isn’t 
he?” said Hermione, an edge to her voice. She was 
stroking Buckbeak, who was crunching up Sirius’s 
chicken bones. “I bet he wishes he hadn’t done it now 
— bet he feels the difference now she’s not there to 
look after him.” 



Page | 576 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Hermione’s obsessed with house-elfs,” Ron muttered 
to Sirius, casting Hermione a dark look. Sirius, 
however, looked interested. 

“Crouch sacked his house-elf?” 

“Yeah, at the Quidditch World Cup,” said Harry, and 
he launched into the story of the Dark Mark’s 
appearance, and Winky being found with Harry’s 
wand clutched in her hand, and Mr. Crouch’s fury. 
When Harry had finished, Sirius was on his feet again 
and had started pacing up and down the cave. 

“Let me get this straight,” he said after a while, 
brandishing a fresh chicken leg. “You first saw the elf 
in the Top Box. She was saving Crouch a seat, right?” 

“Right,” said Harry, Ron, and Hermione together. 

“But Crouch didn’t turn up for the match?” 

“No,” said Harry. “I think he said he’d been too busy.” 

Sirius paced all around the cave in silence. Then he 
said, “Harry, did you check your pockets for your 
wand after you’d left the Top Box?” 

“Erm ...” Harry thought hard. “No,” he said finally. “I 
didn’t need to use it before we got in the forest. And 
then I put my hand in my pocket, and all that was in 
there were my Omnioculars.” He stared at Sirius. “Are 
you saying whoever conjured the Mark stole my wand 
in the Top Box?” 

“It’s possible,” said Sirius. 

“Winky didn’t steal that wand!” Hermione insisted. 



Page | 577 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“The elf wasn’t the only one in that box,” said Sirius, 
his brow furrowed as he continued to pace. “Who else 
was sitting behind you?” 

“Loads of people,” said Harry. “Some Bulgarian 
ministers ... Cornelius Fudge ... the Malfoys ...” 

“The Malfoys!” said Ron suddenly, so loudly that his 
voice echoed all around the cave, and Buckbeak 
tossed his head nervously. “I bet it was Lucius 
Malfoy!” 

“Anyone else?” said Sirius. 

“No one,” said Harry. 

“Yes, there was, there was Ludo Bagman,” Hermione 
reminded him. 

“Oh yeah ...” 

“I don’t know anything about Bagman except that he 
used to be Beater for the Wimbourne Wasps,” said 
Sirius, still pacing. “What’s he like?” 

“He’s okay,” said Harry. “He keeps offering to help me 
with the Triwizard Tournament.” 

“Does he, now?” said Sirius, frowning more deeply. “I 
wonder why he’d do that?” 

“Says he’s taken a liking to me,” said Harry. 

“Hmm,” said Sirius, looking thoughtful. 

“We saw him in the forest just before the Dark Mark 
appeared,” Hermione told Sirius. “Remember?” she 
said to Harry and Ron. 



Page | 578 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah, but he didn’t stay in the forest, did he?” said 
Ron. “The moment we told him about the riot, he 
went off to the campsite.” 

“How d’you know?” Hermione shot back. “How d’you 
know where he Disapparated to?” 

“Come off it,” said Ron incredulously. “Are you saying 
you reckon Ludo Bagman conjured the Dark Mark?” 

“It’s more likely he did it than Winky,” said Hermione 
stubbornly. 

“Told you,” said Ron, looking meaningfully at Sirius, 
“told you she’s obsessed with house — ” 

But Sirius held up a hand to silence Ron. 

“When the Dark Mark had been conjured, and the elf 
had been discovered holding Harry’s wand, what did 
Crouch do?” 

“Went to look in the bushes,” said Harry, “but there 
wasn’t anyone else there.” 

“Of course,” Sirius muttered, pacing up and down, “of 
course, he’d want to pin it on anyone but his own elf 
. . . and then he sacked her?” 

“Yes,” said Hermione in a heated voice, “he sacked 
her, just because she hadn’t stayed in her tent and let 
herself get trampled — ” 

“Hermione, will you give it a rest with the elf!” said 
Ron. 

Sirius shook his head and said, “She’s got the 
measure of Crouch better than you have, Ron. If you 



Page | 579 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




want to know what a man’s like, take a good look at 
how he treats his inferiors, not his equals.” 

He ran a hand over his unshaven face, evidently 
thinking hard. 

“All these absences of Barty Crouch’s ... he goes to 
the trouble of making sure his house-elf saves him a 
seat at the Quidditch World Cup, but doesn’t bother 
to turn up and watch. He works very hard to reinstate 
the Triwizard Tournament, and then stops coming to 
that too. ... It’s not like Crouch. If he’s ever taken a 
day off work because of illness before this, I’ll eat 
Buckbeak.” 

“D’you know Crouch, then?” said Harry. 

Sirius’s face darkened. He suddenly looked as 
menacing as he had the night when Harry first met 
him, the night when Harry still believed Sirius to be a 
murderer. 

“Oh I know Crouch all right,” he said quietly. “He was 
the one who gave the order for me to be sent to 
Azkaban — without a trial.” 

“What?” said Ron and Hermione together. 

“You’re kidding!” said Harry. 

“No, I’m not,” said Sirius, taking another great bite of 
chicken. “Crouch used to be Head of the Department 
of Magical Law Enforcement, didn’t you know?” 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione shook their heads. 

“He was tipped for the next Minister of Magic,” said 
Sirius. “He’s a great wizard, Barty Crouch, powerfully 
magical — and power-hungry. Oh never a Voldemort 

Page | 580 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




supporter,” he said, reading the look on Harry’s face. 
“No, Barty Crouch was always very outspoken against 
the Dark Side. But then a lot of people who were 
against the Dark Side ... well, you wouldn’t 
understand ... you’re too young. ...” 

“That’s what my dad said at the World Cup,” said 
Ron, with a trace of irritation in his voice. “Try us, 
why don’t you?” 

A grin flashed across Sirius’s thin face. 

“All right, I’ll try you. ...” He walked once up the cave, 
back again, and then said, “Imagine that Voldemort’s 
powerful now. You don’t know who his supporters 
are, you don’t know who’s working for him and who 
isn’t; you know he can control people so that they do 
terrible things without being able to stop themselves. 
You’re scared for yourself, and your family, and your 
friends. Every week, news comes of more deaths, 
more disappearances, more torturing ... the Ministry 
of Magic’s in disarray, they don’t know what to do, 
they’re trying to keep everything hidden from the 
Muggles, but meanwhile, Muggles are dying too. 

Terror everywhere ... panic ... confusion ... that’s how 
it used to be. 

“Well, times like that bring out the best in some 
people and the worst in others. Crouch’s principles 
might’ve been good in the beginning — I wouldn’t 
know. He rose quickly through the Ministry, and he 
started ordering very harsh measures against 
Voldemort’s supporters. The Aurors were given new 
powers — powers to kill rather than capture, for 
instance. And I wasn’t the only one who was handed 
straight to the dementors without trial. Crouch fought 
violence with violence, and authorized the use of the 
Unforgivable Curses against suspects. I would say he 
became as ruthless and cruel as many on the Dark 
Page | 581 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Side. He had his supporters, mind you — plenty of 
people thought he was going about things the right 
way, and there were a lot of witches and wizards 
clamoring for him to take over as Minister of Magic. 
When Voldemort disappeared, it looked like only a 
matter of time until Crouch got the top job. But then 
something rather unfortunate happened. ...” Sirius 
smiled grimly. “Crouch’s own son was caught with a 
group of Death Eaters who’d managed to talk their 
way out of Azkaban. Apparently they were trying to 
find Voldemort and return him to power.” 

“Crouch’s son was caught?” gasped Hermione. 

“Yep,” said Sirius, throwing his chicken bone to 
Buckbeak, flinging himself back down on the ground 
beside the loaf of bread, and tearing it in half. “Nasty 
little shock for old Barty, I’d imagine. Should have 
spent a bit more time at home with his family, 
shouldn’t he? Ought to have left the office early once 
in a while ... gotten to know his own son.” 

He began to wolf down large pieces of bread. 

“ Was his son a Death Eater?” said Harry. 

“No idea,” said Sirius, still stuffing down bread. “I was 
in Azkaban myself when he was brought in. This is 
mostly stuff I’ve found out since I got out. The boy 
was definitely caught in the company of people I’d bet 
my life were Death Eaters — but he might have been 
in the wrong place at the wrong time, just like the 
house-elf.” 

“Did Crouch try and get his son off?” Hermione 
whispered. 

Sirius let out a laugh that was much more like a 
bark. 

Page | 582 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Crouch let his son off? I thought you had the 
measure of him, Hermione! Anything that threatened 
to tarnish his reputation had to go; he had dedicated 
his whole life to becoming Minister of Magic. You saw 
him dismiss a devoted house-elf because she 
associated him with the Dark Mark again — doesn’t 
that tell you what he’s like? Crouch’s fatherly 
affection stretched just far enough to give his son a 
trial, and by all accounts, it wasn’t much more than 
an excuse for Crouch to show how much he hated the 
boy ... then he sent him straight to Azkaban.” 

“He gave his own son to the dementors?” asked Harry 
quietly. 

“That’s right,” said Sirius, and he didn’t look remotely 
amused now. “I saw the dementors bringing him in, 
watched them through the bars in my cell door. He 
can’t have been more than nineteen. They took him 
into a cell near mine. He was screaming for his 
mother by nightfall. He went quiet after a few days, 
though . . . they all went quiet in the end . . . except 
when they shrieked in their sleep. ...” 

For a moment, the deadened look in Sirius’s eyes 
became more pronounced than ever, as though 
shutters had closed behind them. 

“So he’s still in Azkaban?” Harry said. 

“No,” said Sirius dully. “No, he’s not in there anymore. 
He died about a year after they brought him in.” 

“He died?” 

“He wasn’t the only one,” said Sirius bitterly. “Most go 
mad in there, and plenty stop eating in the end. They 
lose the will to live. You could always tell when a 
death was coming, because the dementors could 

Page | 583 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




sense it, they got excited. That boy looked pretty 
sickly when he arrived. Crouch being an important 
Ministry member, he and his wife were allowed a 
deathbed visit. That was the last time I saw Barty 
Crouch, half carrying his wife past my cell. She died 
herself, apparently, shortly afterward. Grief. Wasted 
away just like the boy. Crouch never came for his 
son’s body. The dementors buried him outside the 
fortress; I watched them do it.” 

Sirius threw aside the bread he had just lifted to his 
mouth and instead picked up the flask of pumpkin 
juice and drained it. 

“So old Crouch lost it all, just when he thought he 
had it made,” he continued, wiping his mouth with 
the back of his hand. “One moment, a hero, poised to 
become Minister of Magic . . . next, his son dead, his 
wife dead, the family name dishonored, and, so I’ve 
heard since I escaped, a big drop in popularity. Once 
the boy had died, people started feeling a bit more 
sympathetic toward the son and started asking how a 
nice young lad from a good family had gone so badly 
astray. The conclusion was that his father never 
cared much for him. So Cornelius Fudge got the top 
job, and Crouch was shunted sideways into the 
Department of International Magical Cooperation.” 

There was a long silence. Harry was thinking of the 
way Crouch’s eyes had bulged as he’d looked down at 
his disobedient house-elf back in the wood at the 
Quidditch World Cup. This, then, must have been 
why Crouch had overreacted to Winky being found 
beneath the Dark Mark. It had brought back 
memories of his son, and the old scandal, and his fall 
from grace at the Ministry. 

“Moody says Crouch is obsessed with catching Dark 
wizards,” Harry told Sirius. 

Page | 584 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Yeah, I’ve heard it’s become a bit of a mania with 
him,” said Sirius, nodding. “If you ask me, he still 
thinks he can bring back the old popularity by 
catching one more Death Eater.” 

“And he sneaked up here to search Snape’s office!” 
said Ron triumphantly, looking at Hermione. 

“Yes, and that doesn’t make sense at all,” said Sirius. 

“Yeah, it does!” said Ron excitedly, but Sirius shook 
his head. 

“Listen, if Crouch wants to investigate Snape, why 
hasn’t he been coming to judge the tournament? It 
would be an ideal excuse to make regular visits to 
Hogwarts and keep an eye on him.” 

“So you think Snape could be up to something, then?” 
asked Harry, but Hermione broke in. 

“Look, I don’t care what you say, Dumbledore trusts 
Snape — ” 

“Oh give it a rest, Hermione,” said Ron impatiently. “I 
know Dumbledore ’s brilliant and everything, but that 
doesn’t mean a really clever Dark wizard couldn’t fool 
him — ” 



“Why did Snape save Harry’s life in the first year, 
then? Why didn’t he just let him die?” 

“I dunno — maybe he thought Dumbledore would 
kick him out — ” 

“What d’you think, Sirius?” Harry said loudly, and 
Ron and Hermione stopped bickering to listen. 



Page | 585 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I think they’ve both got a point,” said Sirius, looking 
thoughtfully at Ron and Hermione. “Ever since I 
found out Snape was teaching here, I’ve wondered 
why Dumbledore hired him. Snape ’s always been 
fascinated by the Dark Arts, he was famous for it at 
school. Slimy, oily, greasy-haired kid, he was,” Sirius 
added, and Harry and Ron grinned at each other. 
“Snape knew more curses when he arrived at school 
than half the kids in seventh year, and he was part of 
a gang of Slytherins who nearly all turned out to be 
Death Eaters.” 

Sirius held up his fingers and began ticking off 
names. 

“Rosier and Wilkes — they were both killed by Aurors 
the year before Voldemort fell. The Lestranges — 
they’re a married couple — they’re in Azkaban. Avery 

— from what I’ve heard he wormed his way out of 
trouble by saying he’d been acting under the Imperius 
Curse — he’s still at large. But as far as I know, 

Snape was never even accused of being a Death Eater 

— not that that means much. Plenty of them were 
never caught. And Snape ’s certainly clever and 
cunning enough to keep himself out of trouble.” 

“Snape knows Karkaroff pretty well, but he wants to 
keep that quiet,” said Ron. 

“Yeah, you should’ve seen Snape’s face when 
Karkaroff turned up in Potions yesterday!” said Harry 
quickly. “Karkaroff wanted to talk to Snape, he says 
Snape’s been avoiding him. Karkaroff looked really 
worried. He showed Snape something on his arm, but 
I couldn’t see what it was.” 

“He showed Snape something on his arm?” said 
Sirius, looking frankly bewildered. He ran his fingers 
distractedly through his filthy hair, then shrugged 

Page | 586 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




again. “Well, I’ve no idea what that’s about ... but if 
Karkaroff’s genuinely worried, and he’s going to 
Snape for answers ...” 

Sirius stared at the cave wall, then made a grimace of 
frustration. 

“There’s still the fact that Dumbledore trusts Snape, 
and I know Dumbledore trusts where a lot of other 
people wouldn’t, but I just can’t see him letting Snape 
teach at Hogwarts if he’d ever worked for Voldemort.” 

“Why are Moody and Crouch so keen to get into 
Snape ’s office then?” said Ron stubbornly. 

“Well,” said Sirius slowly, “I wouldn’t put it past Mad- 
Eye to have searched every single teacher’s office 
when he got to Hogwarts. He takes his Defense 
Against the Dark Arts seriously, Moody. I’m not sure 
he trusts anyone at all, and after the things he’s seen, 
it’s not surprising. I’ll say this for Moody, though, he 
never killed if he could help it. Always brought people 
in alive where possible. He was tough, but he never 
descended to the level of the Death Eaters. Crouch, 
though ... he’s a different matter ... is he really ill? If 
he is, why did he make the effort to drag himself up to 
Snape ’s office? And if he’s not ... what’s he up to? 
What was he doing at the World Cup that was so 
important he didn’t turn up in the Top Box? What’s 
he been doing while he should have been judging the 
tournament?” 

Sirius lapsed into silence, still staring at the cave 
wall. Buckbeak was ferreting around on the rocky 
floor, looking for bones he might have overlooked. 
Finally, Sirius looked up at Ron. 



Page | 587 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“You say your brother’s Crouch’s personal assistant? 
Any chance you could ask him if he’s seen Crouch 
lately?” 

“I can try,” said Ron doubtfully. “Better not make it 
sound like I reckon Crouch is up to anything dodgy, 
though. Percy loves Crouch.” 

“And you might try and find out whether they’ve got 
any leads on Bertha Jorkins while you’re at it,” said 
Sirius, gesturing to the second copy of the Daily 
Prophet. 

“Bagman told me they hadn’t,” said Harry. 

“Yes, he’s quoted in the article in there,” said Sirius, 
nodding at the paper. “Blustering on about how bad 
Bertha’s memory is. Well, maybe she’s changed since 
I knew her, but the Bertha I knew wasn’t forgetful at 
all — quite the reverse. She was a bit dim, but she 
had an excellent memory for gossip. It used to get her 
into a lot of trouble; she never knew when to keep her 
mouth shut. I can see her being a bit of a liability at 
the Ministry of Magic ... maybe that’s why Bagman 
didn’t bother to look for her for so long. ...” 

Sirius heaved an enormous sigh and rubbed his 
shadowed eyes. 

“What’s the time?” 

Harry checked his watch, then remembered it hadn’t 
been working since it had spent over an hour in the 
lake. 

“It’s half past three,” said Hermione. 

“You’d better get back to school,” Sirius said, getting 
to his feet. “Now listen ...” He looked particularly hard 

Page | 588 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




at Harry. “I don’t want you lot sneaking out of school 
to see me, all right? Just send notes to me here. I still 
want to hear about anything odd. But you’re not to go 
leaving Hogwarts without permission; it would be an 
ideal opportunity for someone to attack you.” 

“No one’s tried to attack me so far, except a dragon 
and a couple of grindylows,” Harry said, but Sirius 
scowled at him. 

“I don’t care ... I’ll breathe freely again when this 
tournament’s over, and that’s not until June. And 
don’t forget, if you’re talking about me among 
yourselves, call me Snuffles, okay?” 

He handed Harry the empty napkin and flask and 
went to pat Buckbeak good-bye. “I’ll walk to the edge 
of the village with you,” said Sirius, “see if I can 
scrounge another paper.” 

He transformed into the great black dog before they 
left the cave, and they walked back down the 
mountainside with him, across the boulder-strewn 
ground, and back to the stile. Here he allowed each of 
them to pat him on the head, before turning and 
setting off at a run around the outskirts of the village. 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione made their way back into 
Hogsmeade and up toward Hogwarts. 

“Wonder if Percy knows all that stuff about Crouch?” 
Ron said as they walked up the drive to the castle. 
“But maybe he doesn’t care ... it’d probably just make 
him admire Crouch even more. Yeah, Percy loves 
rules. He’d just say Crouch was refusing to break 
them for his own son.” 

“Percy would never throw any of his family to the 
dementors,” said Hermione severely. 



Page | 589 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I don’t know,” said Ron. “If he thought we were 
standing in the way of his career . . . Percy’s really 
ambitious, you know. ...” 

They walked up the stone steps into the entrance 
hall, where the delicious smells of dinner wafted 
toward them from the Great Hall. 

“Poor old Snuffles,” said Ron, breathing deeply. “He 
must really like you, Harry. ... Imagine having to live 
off rats.” 



Page | 590 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






THE MADNESS OF MR. CROUCH 

Harry, Ron, and Hermione went up to the Owlery 
after breakfast on Sunday to send a letter to Percy, 
asking, as Sirius had suggested, whether he had seen 
Mr. Crouch lately. They used Hedwig, because it had 
been so long since she’d had a job. When they had 
watched her fly out of sight through the Owlery 
window, they proceeded down to the kitchen to give 
Dobby his new socks. 

The house-elves gave them a very cheery welcome, 
bowing and curtsying and bustling around making 
tea again. Dobby was ecstatic about his present. 

“Harry Potter is too good to Dobby!” he squeaked, 
wiping large tears out of his enormous eyes. 

“You saved my life with that gillyweed, Dobby, you 
really did,” said Harry. 

“No chance of more of those eclairs, is there?” said 
Ron, who was looking around at the beaming and 
bowing house-elves. 

Page | 591 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



“You’ve just had breakfast!” said Hermione irritably, 
but a great silver platter of eclairs was already 
zooming toward them, supported by four elves. 

“We should get some stuff to send up to Snuffles,” 
Harry muttered. 

“Good idea,” said Ron. “Give Pig something to do. You 
couldn’t give us a bit of extra food, could you?” he 
said to the surrounding elves, and they bowed 
delightedly and hurried off to get some more. 

“Dobby, where’s Winky?” said Hermione, who was 
looking around. 

“Winky is over there by the fire, miss,” said Dobby 
quietly, his ears drooping slightly. 

“Oh dear,” said Hermione as she spotted Winky. 

Harry looked over at the fireplace too. Winky was 
sitting on the same stool as last time, but she had 
allowed herself to become so filthy that she was not 
immediately distinguishable from the smoke- 
blackened brick behind her. Her clothes were ragged 
and unwashed. She was clutching a bottle of 
butterbeer and swaying slightly on her stool, staring 
into the fire. As they watched her, she gave an 
enormous hiccup. 

“Winky is getting through six bottles a day now,” 
Dobby whispered to Harry. 

“Well, it’s not strong, that stuff,” Harry said. 

But Dobby shook his head. “ Tis strong for a house- 
elf, sir,” he said. 



Page | 592 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Winky hiccuped again. The elves who had brought the 
eclairs gave her disapproving looks as they returned 
to work. 

“Winky is pining, Harry Potter,” Dobby whispered 
sadly. “Winky wants to go home. Winky still thinks 
Mr. Crouch is her master, sir, and nothing Dobby 
says will persuade her that Professor Dumbledore is 
her master now.” 

“Hey, Winky,” said Harry, struck by a sudden 
inspiration, walking over to her, and bending down, 
“you don’t know what Mr. Crouch might be up to, do 
you? Because he’s stopped turning up to judge the 
Triwizard Tournament.” 

Winky’s eyes flickered. Her enormous pupils focused 
on Harry. She swayed slightly again and then said, “M 
— Master is stopped — hie — coming?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, “we haven’t seen him since the 
first task. The Daily Prophet’s saying he’s ill.” 

Winky swayed some more, staring blurrily at Harry. 

“Master — hie — ill?” 

Her bottom lip began to tremble. 

“But we’re not sure if that’s true,” said Hermione 
quickly. 

“Master is needing his — hie — Winky!” whimpered 
the elf. “Master cannot — hie — manage — hie — all 
by himself. ...” 

“Other people manage to do their own housework, 
you know, Winky,” Hermione said severely. 



Page | 593 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Winky — hie — is not only — hie — doing housework 
for Mr. Crouch!” Winky squeaked indignantly, 
swaying worse than ever and slopping butterbeer 
down her already heavily stained blouse. “Master is — 
hie — trusting Winky with — hie — the most 
important — hie — the most secret — ” 

“What?” said Harry. 

But Winky shook her head very hard, spilling more 
butterbeer down herself. 

“Winky keeps — hie — her master’s secrets,” she said 
mutinously, swaying very heavily now, frowning up at 
Harry with her eyes crossed. “You is — hie — nosing, 
you is.” 

“Winky must not talk like that to Harry Potter!” said 
Dobby angrily. “Harry Potter is brave and noble and 
Harry Potter is not nosy!” 

“He is nosing — hie — into my master’s — hie — 
private and secret — hie — Winky is a good house-elf 
— hie — Winky keeps her silence — hie — people 
trying to — hie — pry and poke — hie — ” 

Winky’s eyelids drooped and suddenly, without 
warning, she slid off her stool into the hearth, snoring 
loudly. The empty bottle of butterbeer rolled away 
across the stone-flagged floor. Half a dozen house- 
elves came hurrying forward, looking disgusted. One 
of them picked up the bottle; the others covered 
Winky with a large checked tablecloth and tucked the 
ends in neatly, hiding her from view. 

“We is sorry you had to see that, sirs and miss!” 
squeaked a nearby elf, shaking his head and looking 
very ashamed. “We is hoping you will not judge us all 
by Winky, sirs and miss!” 

Page | 594 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“She’s unhappy!” said Hermione, exasperated. “Why 
don’t you try and cheer her up instead of covering her 
up?” 

“Begging your pardon, miss,” said the house-elf, 
bowing deeply again, “but house-elves has no right to 
be unhappy when there is work to be done and 
masters to be served.” 

“Oh for heaven’s sake!” Hermione cried. “Listen to me, 
all of you! You’ve got just as much right as wizards to 
be unhappy! You’ve got the right to wages and 
holidays and proper clothes, you don’t have to do 
everything you’re told — look at Dobby!” 

“Miss will please keep Dobby out of this,” Dobby 
mumbled, looking scared. The cheery smiles had 
vanished from the faces of the house-elves around the 
kitchen. They were suddenly looking at Hermione as 
though she were mad and dangerous. 

“We has your extra food!” squeaked an elf at Harry’s 
elbow, and he shoved a large ham, a dozen cakes, and 
some fruit into Harry’s arms. “Good-bye!” 

The house-elves crowded around Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione and began shunting them out of the 
kitchen, many little hands pushing in the smalls of 
their backs. 

“Thank you for the socks, Harry Potter!” Dobby called 
miserably from the hearth, where he was standing 
next to the lumpy tablecloth that was Winky. 

“You couldn’t keep your mouth shut, could you, 
Hermione?” said Ron angrily as the kitchen door 
slammed shut behind them. “They won’t want us 
visiting them now! We could’ve tried to get more stuff 
out of Winky about Crouch!” 

Page | 595 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh as if you care about that!” scoffed Hermione. “You 
only like coming down here for the food!” 

It was an irritable sort of day after that. Harry got so 
tired of Ron and Hermione sniping at each other over 
their homework in the common room that he took 
Sirius’s food up to the Owlery that evening on his 
own. 

Pigwidgeon was much too small to carry an entire 
ham up to the mountain by himself, so Harry enlisted 
the help of two school screech owls as well. When 
they had set off into the dusk, looking extremely odd 
carrying the large package between them, Harry 
leaned on the windowsill, looking out at the grounds, 
at the dark, rustling treetops of the Forbidden Forest, 
and the rippling sails of the Durmstrang ship. An 
eagle owl flew through the coil of smoke rising from 
Hagrid’s chimney; it soared toward the castle, around 
the Owlery, and out of sight. Looking down, Harry 
saw Hagrid digging energetically in front of his cabin. 
Harry wondered what he was doing; it looked as 
though he were making a new vegetable patch. As he 
watched, Madame Maxime emerged from the 
Beauxbatons carriage and walked over to Hagrid. She 
appeared to be trying to engage him in conversation. 
Hagrid leaned upon his spade, but did not seem keen 
to prolong their talk, because Madame Maxime 
returned to the carriage shortly afterward. 

Unwilling to go back to Gryffindor Tower and listen to 
Ron and Hermione snarling at each other, Harry 
watched Hagrid digging until the darkness swallowed 
him and the owls around Harry began to awake, 
swooshing past him into the night. 

By breakfast the next day Ron’s and Hermione’s bad 
moods had burnt out, and to Harry’s relief, Ron’s 
dark predictions that the house-elves would send 

Page | 596 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




substandard food up to the Gryffindor table because 
Hermione had insulted them proved false; the bacon, 
eggs, and kippers were quite as good as usual. 

When the post owls arrived, Hermione looked up 
eagerly; she seemed to be expecting something. 

“Percy won’t’ve had time to answer yet,” said Ron. “We 
only sent Hedwig yesterday.” 

“No, it’s not that,” said Hermione. “I’ve taken out a 
subscription to the Daily Prophet I’m getting sick of 
finding everything out from the Slytherins.” 

“Good thinking!” said Harry, also looking up at the 
owls. “Hey, Hermione, I think you’re in luck — ” 

A gray owl was soaring down toward Hermione. 

“It hasn’t got a newspaper, though,” she said, looking 
disappointed. “It’s — ” 

But to her bewilderment, the gray owl landed in front 
of her plate, closely followed by four barn owls, a 
brown owl, and a tawny. 

“How many subscriptions did you take out?” said 
Harry, seizing Hermione ’s goblet before it was 
knocked over by the cluster of owls, all of whom were 
jostling close to her, trying to deliver their own letter 
first. 

“What on earth — ?” Hermione said, taking the letter 
from the gray owl, opening it, and starting to read. 

“Oh really!” she sputtered, going rather red. 

“What’s up?” said Ron. 

“It’s — oh how ridiculous — ” 

Page | 597 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




She thrust the letter at Harry, who saw that it was 
not handwritten, but composed from pasted letters 
that seemed to have been cut out of the Daily Prophet. 

You are a WickEd giRL. HarRy PotTER desErves 

BeTteR. GO back wherE you cAMe from mUGgle. 

“They’re all like it!” said Hermione desperately, 
opening one letter after another. “ ‘Harry Potter can do 
much better than the likes of you. ...’ ‘You deserve to 
be boiled in frog spawn. ...’ Ouch!” 

She had opened the last envelope, and yellowish- 
green liquid smelling strongly of petrol gushed over 
her hands, which began to erupt in large yellow boils. 

“Undiluted bubotuber pus!” said Ron, picking up the 
envelope gingerly and sniffing it. 

“Ow!” said Hermione, tears starting in her eyes as she 
tried to rub the pus off her hands with a napkin, but 
her fingers were now so thickly covered in painful 
sores that it looked as though she were wearing a pair 
of thick, knobbly gloves. 

“You’d better get up to the hospital wing,” said Harry 
as the owls around Hermione took flight. “We’ll tell 
Professor Sprout where you’ve gone. ...” 

“I warned her!” said Ron as Hermione hurried out of 
the Great Hall, cradling her hands. “I warned her not 
to annoy Rita Skeeter! Look at this one ...” He read 
out one of the letters Hermione had left behind: “ ‘I 
read in Witch Weekly about how you are playing 
Harry Potter false and that boy has had enough 
hardship and I will be sending you a curse by next 



Page | 598 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




post as soon as I can find a big enough envelope.’ 
Blimey, she’d better watch out for herself.” 

Hermione didn’t turn up for Herbology. As Harry and 
Ron left the greenhouse for their Care of Magical 
Creatures class, they saw Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle 
descending the stone steps of the castle. Pansy 
Parkinson was whispering and giggling behind them 
with her gang of Slytherin girls. Catching sight of 
Harry, Pansy called, “Potter, have you split up with 
your girlfriend? Why was she so upset at breakfast?” 

Harry ignored her; he didn’t want to give her the 
satisfaction of knowing how much trouble the Witch 
Weekly article had caused. 

Hagrid, who had told them last lesson that they had 
finished with unicorns, was waiting for them outside 
his cabin with a fresh supply of open crates at his 
feet. Harry’s heart sank at the sight of the crates — 
surely not another skrewt hatching? — but when he 
got near enough to see inside, he found himself 
looking at a number of fluffy black creatures with 
long snouts. Their front paws were curiously flat, like 
spades, and they were blinking up at the class, 
looking politely puzzled at all the attention. 

“These’re nifflers,” said Hagrid, when the class had 
gathered around. “Yeh find ’em down mines mostly. 
They like sparkly stuff. ... There yeh go, look.” 

One of the nifflers had suddenly leapt up and 
attempted to bite Pansy Parkinson’s watch off her 
wrist. She shrieked and jumped backward. 

“Useful little treasure detectors,” said Hagrid happily. 
“Thought we’d have some fun with ’em today. See over 
there?” He pointed at the large patch of freshly turned 
earth Harry had watched him digging from the Owlery 

Page | 599 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




window. “I’ve buried some gold coins. I’ve got a prize 
fer whoever picks the niffler that digs up most. Jus’ 
take off all yer valuables, an’ choose a niffler, an’ get 
ready ter set ’em loose.” 

Harry took off his watch, which he was only wearing 
out of habit, as it didn’t work anymore, and stuffed it 
into his pocket. Then he picked up a niffler. It put its 
long snout in Harry’s ear and sniffed enthusiastically. 
It was really quite cuddly. 

“Hang on,” said Hagrid, looking down into the crate, 
“there’s a spare niffler here ... who’s missin’? Where’s 
Hermione?” 

“She had to go to the hospital wing,” said Ron. 

“Well explain later,” Harry muttered; Pansy 
Parkinson was listening. 

It was easily the most fun they had ever had in Care 
of Magical Creatures. The nifflers dived in and out of 
the patch of earth as though it were water, each 
scurrying back to the student who had released it and 
spitting gold into their hands. Ron’s was particularly 
efficient; it had soon filled his lap with coins. 

“Can you buy these as pets, Hagrid?” he asked 
excitedly as his niffler dived back into the soil, 
splattering his robes. 

“Yer mum wouldn’ be happy, Ron,” said Hagrid, 
grinning. “They wreck houses, nifflers. I reckon 
they’ve nearly got the lot, now,” he added, pacing 
around the patch of earth while the nifflers continued 
to dive. “I on’y buried a hundred coins. Oh there 
y’are, Hermione!” 



Page | 600 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione was walking toward them across the lawn. 
Her hands were very heavily bandaged and she looked 
miserable. Pansy Parkinson was watching her 
beadily. 

“Well, let’s check how yeh’ve done!” said Hagrid. 
“Count yer coins! An’ there’s no point tryin’ ter steal 
any, Goyle,” he added, his beetle-black eyes 
narrowed. “It’s leprechaun gold. Vanishes after a few 
hours.” 

Goyle emptied his pockets, looking extremely sulky. It 
turned out that Ron’s niffler had been most 
successful, so Hagrid gave him an enormous slab of 
Honeydukes chocolate for a prize. The bell rang 
across the grounds for lunch; the rest of the class set 
off back to the castle, but Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
stayed behind to help Hagrid put the nifflers back in 
their boxes. Harry noticed Madame Maxime watching 
them out of her carriage window. 

“What yeh done ter your hands, Hermione?” said 
Hagrid, looking concerned. 

Hermione told him about the hate mail she had 
received that morning, and the envelope full of 
bubotuber pus. 

“Aaah, don’ worry,” said Hagrid gently, looking down 
at her. “I got some o’ those letters an’ all, after Rita 
Skeeter wrote abou’ me mum. ‘Yeh’re a monster an’ 
yeh should be put down.’ ‘Yer mother killed innocent 
people an’ if you had any decency you’d jump in a 
lake. ’ ” 

“No!” said Hermione, looking shocked. 

“Yeah,” said Hagrid, heaving the niffler crates over by 
his cabin wall. “They’re jus’ nutters, Hermione. Don’ 

Page | 601 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




open ’em if yeh get any more. Chuck ’em straigh’ in 
the fire.” 



“You missed a really good lesson,” Harry told 
Hermione as they headed back toward the castle. 
“They’re good, nifflers, aren’t they, Ron?” 

Ron, however, was frowning at the chocolate Hagrid 
had given him. He looked thoroughly put out about 
something. 

“What’s the matter?” said Harry. “Wrong flavor?” 

“No,” said Ron shortly. “Why didn’t you tell me about 
the gold?” 

“What gold?” said Harry. 

“The gold I gave you at the Quidditch World Cup,” 
said Ron. “The leprechaun gold I gave you for my 
Omnioculars. In the Top Box. Why didn’t you tell me 
it disappeared?” 

Harry had to think for a moment before he realized 
what Ron was talking about. 

“Oh ...” he said, the memory coming back to him at 
last. “I dunno ... I never noticed it had gone. I was 
more worried about my wand, wasn’t I?” 

They climbed the steps into the entrance hall and 
went into the Great Hall for lunch. 

“Must be nice,” Ron said abruptly, when they had sat 
down and started serving themselves roast beef and 
Yorkshire puddings. “To have so much money you 
don’t notice if a pocketful of Galleons goes missing.” 



Page | 602 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Listen, I had other stuff on my mind that night!” said 
Harry impatiently. “We all did, remember?” 



“I didn’t know leprechaun gold vanishes,” Ron 
muttered. “I thought I was paying you back. You 
shouldn’t ’ve given me that Chudley Cannon hat for 
Christmas.” 

“Forget it, all right?” said Harry. 

Ron speared a roast potato on the end of his fork, 
glaring at it. Then he said, “I hate being poor.” 

Harry and Hermione looked at each other. Neither of 
them really knew what to say. 

“It’s rubbish,” said Ron, still glaring down at his 
potato. “I don’t blame Fred and George for trying to 
make some extra money. Wish I could. Wish I had a 
niffler.” 

“Well, we know what to get you next Christmas,” said 
Hermione brightly. Then, when Ron continued to look 
gloomy, she said, “Come on, Ron, it could be worse. 

At least your fingers aren’t full of pus.” Hermione was 
having a lot of difficulty managing her knife and fork, 
her fingers were so stiff and swollen. “I hate that 
Skeeter woman!” she burst out savagely. “I’ll get her 
back for this if it’s the last thing I do!” 



Hate mail continued to arrive for Hermione over the 
following week, and although she followed Hagrid’s 
advice and stopped opening it, several of her ill- 
wishers sent Howlers, which exploded at the 
Gryffindor table and shrieked insults at her for the 
whole Hall to hear. Even those people who didn’t read 
Witch Weekly knew all about the supposed Harry- 
Page | 603 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Krum-Hermione triangle now. Harry was getting sick 
of telling people that Hermione wasn’t his girlfriend. 

“It’ll die down, though,” he told Hermione, “if we just 
ignore it. ... People got bored with that stuff she wrote 
about me last time — ” 

“I want to know how she’s listening into private 
conversations when she’s supposed to be banned 
from the grounds!” said Hermione angrily. 

Hermione hung back in their next Defense Against 
the Dark Arts lesson to ask Professor Moody 
something. The rest of the class was very eager to 
leave; Moody had given them such a rigorous test of 
hex-deflection that many of them were nursing small 
injuries. Harry had such a bad case of Twitchy Ears, 
he had to hold his hands clamped over them as he 
walked away from the class. 

“Well, Rita’s definitely not using an Invisibility Cloak!” 
Hermione panted five minutes later, catching up with 
Harry and Ron in the entrance hall and pulling 
Harry’s hand away from one of his wiggling ears so 
that he could hear her. “Moody says he didn’t see her 
anywhere near the judges’ table at the second task, or 
anywhere near the lake!” 

“Hermione, is there any point in telling you to drop 
this?” said Ron. 

“No!” said Hermione stubbornly. “I want to know how 
she heard me talking to Viktor! And how she found 
out about Hagrid’s mum!” 

“Maybe she had you bugged,” said Harry. 

“Bugged?” said Ron blankly. “What ... put fleas on her 
or something?” 

Page | 604 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry started explaining about hidden microphones 
and recording equipment. Ron was fascinated, but 
Hermione interrupted them. 

“Aren’t you two ever going to read Hogwarts, A 
History?” 

“What’s the point?” said Ron. “You know it by heart, 
we can just ask you.” 

“All those substitutes for magic Muggles use — 
electricity, computers, and radar, and all those things 
— they all go haywire around Hogwarts, there’s too 
much magic in the air. No, Rita’s using magic to 
eavesdrop, she must be. ... If I could just find out 
what it is ... ooh, if it’s illegal, I’ll have her ...” 

“Haven’t we got enough to worry about?” Ron asked 
her. “Do we have to start a vendetta against Rita 
Skeeter as well?” 

“I’m not asking you to help!” Hermione snapped. “I’ll 
do it on my own!” 

She marched back up the marble staircase without a 
backward glance. Harry was quite sure she was going 
to the library. 

“What’s the betting she comes back with a box of / 
Hate Rita Skeeter badges?” said Ron. 

Hermione, however, did not ask Harry and Ron to 
help her pursue vengeance against Rita Skeeter, for 
which they were both grateful, because their workload 
was mounting ever higher in the days before the 
Easter holidays. Harry frankly marveled at the fact 
that Hermione could research magical methods of 
eavesdropping as well as everything else they had to 
do. He was working flat-out just to get through all 
Page | 605 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




their homework, though he made a point of sending 
regular food packages up to the cave in the mountain 
for Sirius; after last summer, Harry had not forgotten 
what it felt like to be continually hungry. He enclosed 
notes to Sirius, telling him that nothing out of the 
ordinary had happened, and that they were still 
waiting for an answer from Percy. 

Hedwig didn’t return until the end of the Easter 
holidays. Percy’s letter was enclosed in a package of 
Easter eggs that Mrs. Weasley had sent. Both Harry’s 
and Ron’s were the size of dragon eggs and full of 
homemade toffee. Hermione’s, however, was smaller 
than a chicken egg. Her face fell when she saw it. 

“Your mum doesn’t read Witch Weekly, by any 
chance, does she, Ron?” she asked quietly. 

“Yeah,” said Ron, whose mouth was full of toffee. 

“Gets it for the recipes.” 

Hermione looked sadly at her tiny egg. 

“Don’t you want to see what Percy’s written?” Harry 
asked her hastily. 

Percy’s letter was short and irritated. 

As I am constantly telling the Daily Prophet, Mr. 

Crouch is taking a well-deserved break. He is sending 
in regular owls with instructions. No, I haven’t actually 
seen him, but I think I can be trusted to know my own 
superior’s handwriting. I have quite enough to do at 
the moment without trying to quash these ridiculous 
rumors. Please don’t bother me again unless it’s 
something important. Happy Easter. 

The start of the summer term would normally have 
meant that Harry was training hard for the last 

Page | 606 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Quidditch match of the season. This year, however, it 
was the third and final task in the Triwizard 
Tournament for which he needed to prepare, but he 
still didn’t know what he would have to do. Finally, in 
the last week of May, Professor McGonagall held him 
back in Transfiguration. 

“You are to go down to the Quidditch field tonight at 
nine o’clock, Potter,” she told him. “Mr. Bagman will 
be there to tell the champions about the third task.” 

So at half past eight that night, Harry left Ron and 
Hermione in Gryffindor Tower and went downstairs. 
As he crossed the entrance hall, Cedric came up from 
the Hufflepuff common room. 

“What d’you reckon it’s going to be?” he asked Harry 
as they went together down the stone steps, out into 
the cloudy night. “Fleur keeps going on about 
underground tunnels; she reckons we’ve got to find 
treasure.” 

“That wouldn’t be too bad,” said Harry, thinking that 
he would simply ask Hagrid for a niffler to do the job 
for him. 

They walked down the dark lawn to the Quidditch 
stadium, turned through a gap in the stands, and 
walked out onto the field. 

“What’ve they done to it?” Cedric said indignantly, 
stopping dead. 

The Quidditch field was no longer smooth and flat. It 
looked as though somebody had been building long, 
low walls all over it that twisted and crisscrossed in 
every direction. 



Page | 607 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“They’re hedges!” said Harry, bending to examine the 
nearest one. 



“Hello there!” called a cheery voice. 

Ludo Bagman was standing in the middle of the field 
with Krum and Fleur. Harry and Cedric made their 
way toward them, climbing over the hedges. Fleur 
beamed at Harry as he came nearer. Her attitude 
toward him had changed completely since he had 
saved her sister from the lake. 

“Well, what d’you think?” said Bagman happily as 
Harry and Cedric climbed over the last hedge. 
“Growing nicely, aren’t they? Give them a month and 
Hagrid’ll have them twenty feet high. Don’t worry,” he 
added, grinning, spotting the less-than-happy 
expressions on Harry’s and Cedric’s faces, “you’ll have 
your Quidditch field back to normal once the task is 
over! Now, I imagine you can guess what we’re 
making here?” 

No one spoke for a moment. Then — 

“Maze,” grunted Krum. 

“That’s right!” said Bagman. “A maze. The third task’s 
really very straightforward. The Triwizard Cup will be 
placed in the center of the maze. The first champion 
to touch it will receive full marks.” 

“We seemply ’ave to get through the maze?” said 
Fleur. 

“There will be obstacles,” said Bagman happily, 
bouncing on the balls of his feet. “Hagrid is providing 
a number of creatures . . . then there will be spells that 
must be broken ... all that sort of thing, you know. 
Now, the champions who are leading on points will 
Page | 608 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




get a head start into the maze.” Bagman grinned at 
Harry and Cedric. “Then Mr. Krum will enter ... then 
Miss Delacour. But you 11 all be in with a fighting 
chance, depending how well you get past the 
obstacles. Should be fun, eh?” 

Harry, who knew only too well the kind of creatures 
that Hagrid was likely to provide for an event like this, 
thought it was unlikely to be any fun at all. However, 
he nodded politely like the other champions. 

“Very well ... if you haven’t got any questions, we’ll go 
back up to the castle, shall we, it’s a bit chilly. ...” 

Bagman hurried alongside Harry as they began to 
wend their way out of the growing maze. Harry had 
the feeling that Bagman was going to start offering to 
help him again, but just then, Krum tapped Harry on 
the shoulder. 

“Could I haff a vord?” 

“Yeah, all right,” said Harry, slightly surprised. 

“Vill you valk vith me?” 

“Okay,” said Harry curiously. 

Bagman looked slightly perturbed. 

“I’ll wait for you, Harry, shall I?” 

“No, it’s okay, Mr. Bagman,” said Harry, suppressing 
a smile, “I think I can find the castle on my own, 
thanks.” 

Harry and Krum left the stadium together, but Krum 
did not set a course for the Durmstrang ship. Instead, 
he walked toward the forest. 

Page | 609 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“What ’re we going this way for?” said Harry as they 
passed Hagrid’s cabin and the illuminated 
Beauxbatons carriage. 

“Don’t vant to be overheard,” said Krum shortly. 

When at last they had reached a quiet stretch of 
ground a short way from the Beauxbatons horses’ 
paddock, Krum stopped in the shade of the trees and 
turned to face Harry. 

“I vant to know,” he said, glowering, “vot there is 
between you and Hermy-own-ninny.” 

Harry, who from Krum’s secretive manner had 
expected something much more serious than this, 
stared up at Krum in amazement. 

“Nothing,” he said. But Krum glowered at him, and 
Harry, somehow struck anew by how tall Krum was, 
elaborated. “We’re friends. She’s not my girlfriend and 
she never has been. It’s just that Skeeter woman 
making things up.” 

“Hermy-own-ninny talks about you very often,” said 
Krum, looking suspiciously at Harry. 

“Yeah,” said Harry, “because we’re friends.” 

He couldn’t quite believe he was having this 
conversation with Viktor Krum, the famous 
International Quidditch player. It was as though the 
eighteen-year-old Krum thought he, Harry, was an 
equal — a real rival — 

“You haff never ... you haff not ...” 

“No,” said Harry very firmly. 



Page | 610 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Krum looked slightly happier. He stared at Harry for a 
few seconds, then said, “You fly very veil. I vos 
votching at the first task.” 

“Thanks,” said Harry, grinning broadly and suddenly 
feeling much taller himself. “I saw you at the 
Quidditch World Cup. The Wronski Feint, you really 



But something moved behind Krum in the trees, and 
Harry, who had some experience of the sort of thing 
that lurked in the forest, instinctively grabbed Krum’s 
arm and pulled him around. 

“Vot is it?” 

Harry shook his head, staring at the place where he’d 
seen movement. He slipped his hand inside his robes, 
reaching for his wand. 

Suddenly a man staggered out from behind a tall oak. 
For a moment, Harry didn’t recognize him ... then he 
realized it was Mr. Crouch. 

He looked as though he had been traveling for days. 
The knees of his robes were ripped and bloody, his 
face scratched; he was unshaven and gray with 
exhaustion. His neat hair and mustache were both in 
need of a wash and a trim. His strange appearance, 
however, was nothing to the way he was behaving. 
Muttering and gesticulating, Mr. Crouch appeared to 
be talking to someone that he alone could see. He 
reminded Harry vividly of an old tramp he had seen 
once when out shopping with the Dursleys. That man 
too had been conversing wildly with thin air; Aunt 
Petunia had seized Dudley’s hand and pulled him 
across the road to avoid him; Uncle Vernon had then 
treated the family to a long rant about what he would 
like to do with beggars and vagrants. 

Page | 611 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




“Vosn’t he a judge?” said Krum, staring at Mr. 

Crouch. “Isn’t he vith your Ministry?” 

Harry nodded, hesitated for a moment, then walked 
slowly toward Mr. Crouch, who did not look at him, 
but continued to talk to a nearby tree. 

"... and when you’ve done that, Weatherby, send an 
owl to Dumbledore confirming the number of 
Durmstrang students who will be attending the 
tournament, Karkaroff has just sent word there will 
be twelve. ...” 

“Mr. Crouch?” said Harry cautiously. 

"... and then send another owl to Madame Maxime, 
because she might want to up the number of 
students she’s bringing, now Karkaroff’s made it a 
round dozen ... do that, Weatherby, will you? Will 
you? Will...” 

Mr. Crouch’s eyes were bulging. He stood staring at 
the tree, muttering soundlessly at it. Then he 
staggered sideways and fell to his knees. 

“Mr. Crouch?” Harry said loudly. “Are you all right?” 

Crouch’s eyes were rolling in his head. Harry looked 
around at Krum, who had followed him into the trees, 
and was looking down at Crouch in alarm. 

“Vot is wrong with him?” 

“No idea,” Harry muttered. “Listen, you’d better go 
and get someone — ” 

“Dumbledore!” gasped Mr. Crouch. He reached out 
and seized a handful of Harry’s robes, dragging him 



Page | 612 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




closer, though his eyes were staring over Harry’s 
head. “I need ... see ... Dumbledore. ...” 

“Okay,” said Harry, “if you get up, Mr. Crouch, we can 
go up to the — ” 

“I’ve done ... stupid ... thing ...” Mr. Crouch breathed. 
He looked utterly mad. His eyes were rolling and 
bulging, and a trickle of spittle was sliding down his 
chin. Every word he spoke seemed to cost him a 
terrible effort. “Must ... tell ... Dumbledore ...” 

“Get up, Mr. Crouch,” said Harry loudly and clearly. 
“Get up, I’ll take you to Dumbledore!” 

Mr. Crouch’s eyes rolled forward onto Harry. 

“Who ... you?” he whispered. 

“I’m a student at the school,” said Harry, looking 
around at Krum for some help, but Krum was 
hanging back, looking extremely nervous. 

“You’re not ... his?” whispered Crouch, his mouth 
sagging. 

“No,” said Harry, without the faintest idea what 
Crouch was talking about. 

“Dumbledore ’s?” 

“That’s right,” said Harry. 

Crouch was pulling him closer; Harry tried to loosen 
Crouch’s grip on his robes, but it was too powerful. 

“Warn ... Dumbledore ...” 



Page | 613 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I’ll get Dumbledore if you let go of me,” said Harry. 
“Just let go, Mr. Crouch, and I’ll get him. ...” 

“Thank you, Weatherby, and when you have done 
that, I would like a cup of tea. My wife and son will be 
arriving shortly, we are attending a concert tonight 
with Mr. and Mrs. Fudge.” 

Crouch was now talking fluently to a tree again, and 
seemed completely unaware that Harry was there, 
which surprised Harry so much he didn’t notice that 
Crouch had released him. 

“Yes, my son has recently gained twelve O.W.L.s, 
most satisfactory, yes, thank you, yes, very proud 
indeed. Now, if you could bring me that memo from 
the Andorran Minister of Magic, I think I will have 
time to draft a response. ...” 

“You stay here with him!” Harry said to Krum. “I’ll get 
Dumbledore, I’ll be quicker, I know where his office is 



“He is mad,” said Krum doubtfully, staring down at 
Crouch, who was still gabbling to the tree, apparently 
convinced it was Percy. 

“Just stay with him,” said Harry, starting to get up, 
but his movement seemed to trigger another abrupt 
change in Mr. Crouch, who seized him hard around 
the knees and pulled Harry back to the ground. 

“Don’t ... leave ... me!” he whispered, his eyes bulging 
again. “I ... escaped . . . must warn . . . must tell . . . see 
Dumbledore . . . my fault ... all my fault . . . Bertha . . . 
dead ... all my fault . . . my son . . . my fault . . . tell 
Dumbledore . . . Harry Potter . . . the Dark Lord . . . 
stronger ... Harry Potter ...” 



Page | 614 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I’ll get Dumbledore if you let me go, Mr. Crouch!” 
said Harry. He looked furiously around at Krum. 

“Help me, will you?” 

Looking extremely apprehensive, Krum moved 
forward and squatted down next to Mr. Crouch. 

“Just keep him here,” said Harry, pulling himself free 
of Mr. Crouch. “I’ll be back with Dumbledore.” 

“Hurry, von’t you?” Krum called after him as Harry 
sprinted away from the forest and up through the 
dark grounds. They were deserted; Bagman, Cedric, 
and Fleur had disappeared. Harry tore up the stone 
steps, through the oak front doors, and off up the 
marble staircase, toward the second floor. 

Five minutes later he was hurtling toward a stone 
gargoyle standing halfway along an empty corridor. 

“Sher — sherbet lemon!” he panted at it. 

This was the password to the hidden staircase to 
Dumbledore ’s office — or at least, it had been two 
years ago. The password had evidently changed, 
however, for the stone gargoyle did not spring to life 
and jump aside, but stood frozen, glaring at Harry 
malevolently. 

“Move!” Harry shouted at it. “C’mon!” 

But nothing at Hogwarts had ever moved just because 
he shouted at it; he knew it was no good. He looked 
up and down the dark corridor. Perhaps Dumbledore 
was in the staffroom? He started running as fast as 
he could toward the staircase — 

“POTTER!” 



Page | 615 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry skidded to a halt and looked around. Snape 
had just emerged from the hidden staircase behind 
the stone gargoyle. The wall was sliding shut behind 
him even as he beckoned Harry back toward him. 

“What are you doing here, Potter?” 

“I need to see Professor Dumbledore!” said Harry, 
running back up the corridor and skidding to a 
standstill in front of Snape instead. “It’s Mr. Crouch 
... he’s just turned up ... he’s in the forest ... he’s 
asking — ” 

“What is this rubbish?” said Snape, his black eyes 
glittering. “What are you talking about?” 

“Mr. Crouch!” Harry shouted. “From the Ministry! 

He’s ill or something — he’s in the forest, he wants to 
see Dumbledore! Just give me the password up to — ” 

“The headmaster is busy, Potter,” said Snape, his thin 
mouth curling into an unpleasant smile. 

“I’ve got to tell Dumbledore!” Harry yelled. 

“Didn’t you hear me, Potter?” 

Harry could tell Snape was thoroughly enjoying 
himself, denying Harry the thing he wanted when he 
was so panicky. 

“Look,” said Harry angrily, “Crouch isn’t right — he’s 
— he’s out of his mind — he says he wants to warn — 



The stone wall behind Snape slid open. Dumbledore 
was standing there, wearing long green robes and a 
mildly curious expression. “Is there a problem?” he 
said, looking between Harry and Snape. 

Page | 616 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Professor!” Harry said, sidestepping Snape before 
Snape could speak, “Mr. Crouch is here — he’s down 
in the forest, he wants to speak to you!” 

Harry expected Dumbledore to ask questions, but to 
his relief, Dumbledore did nothing of the sort. 

“Lead the way,” he said promptly, and he swept off 
along the corridor behind Harry, leaving Snape 
standing next to the gargoyle and looking twice as 
ugly. 

“What did Mr. Crouch say, Harry?” said Dumbledore 
as they walked swiftly down the marble staircase. 

“Said he wants to warn you ... said he’s done 
something terrible ... he mentioned his son . . . and 
Bertha Jorkins ... and — and Voldemort ... something 
about Voldemort getting stronger. ...” 

“Indeed,” said Dumbledore, and he quickened his 
pace as they hurried out into the pitch-darkness. 

“He’s not acting normally,” Harry said, hurrying along 
beside Dumbledore. “He doesn’t seem to know where 
he is. He keeps talking like he thinks Percy Weasley’s 
there, and then he changes, and says he needs to see 
you. ... I left him with Viktor Krum.” 

“You did?” said Dumbledore sharply, and he began to 
take longer strides still, so that Harry was running to 
keep up. “Do you know if anybody else saw Mr. 
Crouch?” 

“No,” said Harry. “Krum and I were talking, Mr. 
Bagman had just finished telling us about the third 
task, we stayed behind, and then we saw Mr. Crouch 
coming out of the forest — ” 



Page | 617 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Where are they?” said Dumbledore as the 
Beauxbatons carriage emerged from the darkness. 

“Over here,” said Harry, moving in front of 
Dumbledore, leading the way through the trees. He 
couldn’t hear Crouch’s voice anymore, but he knew 
where he was going; it hadn’t been much past the 
Beauxbatons carriage ... somewhere around here. ... 

“Viktor?” Harry shouted. 

No one answered. 

“They were here,” Harry said to Dumbledore. “They 
were definitely somewhere around here. ...” 

“Lumos,” Dumbledore said, lighting his wand and 
holding it up. 

Its narrow beam traveled from black trunk to black 
trunk, illuminating the ground. And then it fell upon 
a pair of feet. 

Harry and Dumbledore hurried forward. Krum was 
sprawled on the forest floor. He seemed to be 
unconscious. There was no sign at all of Mr. Crouch. 
Dumbledore bent over Krum and gently lifted one of 
his eyelids. 

“Stunned,” he said softly. His half-moon glasses 
glittered in the wandlight as he peered around at the 
surrounding trees. 

“Should I go and get someone?” said Harry. “Madam 
Pomfrey?” 

“No,” said Dumbledore swiftly. “Stay here.” 



Page | 618 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




He raised his wand into the air and pointed it in the 
direction of Hagrid ’s cabin. Harry saw something 
silvery dart out of it and streak away through the 
trees like a ghostly bird. Then Dumbledore bent over 
Krum again, pointed his wand at him, and muttered, 
“Renneruate.” 

Krum opened his eyes. He looked dazed. When he saw 
Dumbledore, he tried to sit up, but Dumbledore put a 
hand on his shoulder and made him lie still. 

“He attacked me!” Krum muttered, putting a hand up 
to his head. “The old madman attacked me! I vos 
looking around to see vare Potter had gone and he 
attacked from behind!” 

“Lie still for a moment,” Dumbledore said. 

The sound of thunderous footfalls reached them, and 
Hagrid came panting into sight with Fang at his 
heels. He was carrying his crossbow. 

“Professor Dumbledore!” he said, his eyes widening. 
“Harry — what the — ?” 

“Hagrid, I need you to fetch Professor Karkaroff,” said 
Dumbledore. “His student has been attacked. When 
you’ve done that, kindly alert Professor Moody — ” 

“No need, Dumbledore,” said a wheezy growl. “I’m 
here.” 

Moody was limping toward them, leaning on his staff, 
his wand lit. 

“Damn leg,” he said furiously. “Would’ve been here 
quicker ... what’s happened? Snape said something 
about Crouch — ” 



Page | 619 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Crouch?” said Hagrid blankly. 

“Karkaroff, please, Hagrid!” said Dumbledore sharply. 

“Oh yeah ... right y’are, Professor ...” said Hagrid, and 
he turned and disappeared into the dark trees, Fang 
trotting after him. 

“I don’t know where Barty Crouch is,” Dumbledore 
told Moody, “but it is essential that we find him.” 

“I’m onto it,” growled Moody, and he pulled out his 
wand and limped off into the forest. 

Neither Dumbledore nor Harry spoke again until they 
heard the unmistakable sounds of Hagrid and Fang 
returning. Karkaroff was hurrying along behind them. 
He was wearing his sleek silver furs, and he looked 
pale and agitated. 

“What is this?” he cried when he saw Krum on the 
ground and Dumbledore and Harry beside him. 
“What’s going on?” 

“I vos attacked!” said Krum, sitting up now and 
rubbing his head. “Mr. Crouch or votever his name — 



“Crouch attacked you? Crouch attacked you? The 
Triwizard judge?” 

“Igor,” Dumbledore began, but Karkaroff had drawn 
himself up, clutching his furs around him, looking 
livid. 

“Treachery!” he bellowed, pointing at Dumbledore. “It 
is a plot! You and your Ministry of Magic have lured 
me here under false pretenses, Dumbledore! This is 
not an equal competition! First you sneak Potter into 

Page | 620 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




the tournament, though he is underage! Now one of 
your Ministry friends attempts to put my champion 
out of action! I smell double-dealing and corruption in 
this whole affair, and you, Dumbledore, you, with 
your talk of closer international wizarding links, of 
rebuilding old ties, of forgetting old differences — 
here’s what I think of you!” 

Karkaroff spat onto the ground at Dumbledore’s feet. 
In one swift movement, Hagrid seized the front of 
Karkaroff’s furs, lifted him into the air, and slammed 
him against a nearby tree. 

“Apologize!” Hagrid snarled as Karkaroff gasped for 
breath, Hagrid’s massive fist at his throat, his feet 
dangling in midair. 

“Hagrid, no\” Dumbledore shouted, his eyes flashing. 

Hagrid removed the hand pinning Karkaroff to the 
tree, and Karkaroff slid all the way down the trunk 
and slumped in a huddle at its roots; a few twigs and 
leaves showered down upon his head. 

“Kindly escort Harry back up to the castle, Hagrid,” 
said Dumbledore sharply. 

Breathing heavily, Hagrid gave Karkaroff a glowering 
look. 

“Maybe I’d better stay here, Headmaster. ...” 

“You will take Harry back to school, Hagrid,” 
Dumbledore repeated firmly. “Take him right up to 
Gryffindor Tower. And Harry — I want you to stay 
there. Anything you might want to do — any owls you 
might want to send — they can wait until morning, do 
you understand me?” 



Page | 621 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Er — yes,” said Harry, staring at him. How had 
Dumbledore known that, at that very moment, he had 
been thinking about sending Pigwidgeon straight to 
Sirius, to tell him what had happened? 

“Ill leave Fang with yeh, Headmaster,” Hagrid said, 
staring menacingly at Karkaroff, who was still 
sprawled at the foot of the tree, tangled in furs and 
tree roots. “Stay, Fang. C’mon, Harry.” 

They marched in silence past the Beauxbatons 
carriage and up toward the castle. 

“How dare he,” Hagrid growled as they strode past the 
lake. “How dare he accuse Dumbledore. Like 
Dumbledore ’d do anythin’ like that. Like Dumbledore 
wanted you in the tournament in the firs’ place. 
Worried! I dunno when I seen Dumbledore more 
worried than he’s bin lately. An’ you!” Hagrid 
suddenly said angrily to Harry, who looked up at him, 
taken aback. “What were yeh doin’, wanderin’ off with 
ruddy Krum? He’s from Durmstrang, Harry! Coulda 
jinxed yeh right there, couldn’ he? Hasn’ Moody 
taught yeh nothin’? ’Magine lettin’ him lure yeh off on 
yer own — ” 

“Krum’s all right!” said Harry as they climbed the 
steps into the entrance hall. “He wasn’t trying to jinx 
me, he just wanted to talk about Hermione — ” 

“I’ll be havin’ a few words with her, an’ all,” said 
Hagrid grimly, stomping up the stairs. “The less you 
lot ’ave ter do with these foreigners, the happier yeh’ll 
be. Yeh can’ trust any of ’em.” 

“You were getting on all right with Madame Maxime,” 
Harry said, annoyed. 



Page | 622 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Don’ you talk ter me abou’ her!” said Hagrid, and he 
looked quite frightening for a moment. “I’ve got her 
number now! Tryin’ ter get back in me good books, 
tryin’ ter get me ter tell her what’s cornin’ in the third 
task. Ha! You can’ trust any of ’em!” 

Hagrid was in such a bad mood, Harry was quite glad 
to say good-bye to him in front of the Fat Lady. He 
clambered through the portrait hole into the common 
room and hurried straight for the corner where Ron 
and Hermione were sitting, to tell them what had 
happened. 



Page | 623 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




z? 




THE DREAM 

“It comes down to this,” said Hermione, rubbing her 
forehead. “Either Mr. Crouch attacked Viktor, or 
somebody else attacked both of them when Viktor 
wasn’t looking.” 

“It must’ve been Crouch,” said Ron at once. “That’s 
why he was gone when Harry and Dumbledore got 
there. He’d done a runner.” 

“I don’t think so,” said Harry, shaking his head. “He 
seemed really weak — I don’t reckon he was up to 
Disapparating or anything.” 

“You can’t Disapparate on the Hogwarts grounds, 
haven’t I told you enough times?” said Hermione. 

“Okay ... how’s this for a theory,” said Ron excitedly. 
“Krum attacked Crouch — no, wait for it — and then 
Stunned himself!” 

“And Mr. Crouch evaporated, did he?” said Hermione 
coldly. 

Page | 624 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



“Oh yeah ...” 



It was daybreak. Harry, Ron, and Hermione had crept 
out of their dormitories very early and hurried up to 
the Owlery together to send a note to Sirius. Now they 
were standing looking out at the misty grounds. All 
three of them were puffy-eyed and pale because they 
had been talking late into the night about Mr. 

Crouch. 

“Just go through it again, Harry,” said Hermione. 
“What did Mr. Crouch actually say?” 

“I’ve told you, he wasn’t making much sense,” said 
Harry. “He said he wanted to warn Dumbledore about 
something. He definitely mentioned Bertha Jorkins, 
and he seemed to think she was dead. He kept saying 
stuff was his fault. ... He mentioned his son.” 

“Well, that was his fault,” said Hermione testily. 

“He was out of his mind,” said Harry. “Half the time 
he seemed to think his wife and son were still alive, 
and he kept talking to Percy about work and giving 
him instructions.” 

“And ... remind me what he said about You-Know- 
Who?” said Ron tentatively. 

“I’ve told you,” Harry repeated dully. “He said he’s 
getting stronger.” 

There was a pause. Then Ron said in a falsely 
confident voice, “But he was out of his mind, like you 
said, so half of it was probably just raving. ...” 

“He was sanest when he was trying to talk about 
Voldemort,” said Harry, and Ron winced at the sound 
of the name. “He was having real trouble stringing 

Page | 625 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




two words together, but that was when he seemed to 
know where he was, and know what he wanted to do. 
He just kept saying he had to see Dumbledore.” 

Harry turned away from the window and stared up 
into the rafters. The many perches were half-empty; 
every now and then, another owl would swoop in 
through one of the windows, returning from its night’s 
hunting with a mouse in its beak. 

“If Snape hadn’t held me up,” Harry said bitterly, “we 
might’ve got there in time. The headmaster is busy, 
Potter ... what’s this rubbish, Potter?’ Why couldn’t he 
have just got out of the way?” 

“Maybe he didn’t want you to get there!” said Ron 
quickly. “Maybe — hang on — how fast d’you reckon 
he could’ve gotten down to the forest? D’you reckon 
he could’ve beaten you and Dumbledore there?” 

“Not unless he can turn himself into a bat or 
something,” said Harry. 

“Wouldn’t put it past him,” Ron muttered. 

“We need to see Professor Moody,” said Hermione. 

“We need to find out whether he found Mr. Crouch.” 

“If he had the Marauder’s Map on him, it would’ve 
been easy,” said Harry. 

“Unless Crouch was already outside the grounds,” 
said Ron, “because it only shows up to the 
boundaries, doesn’t — ” 

“Shh!” said Hermione suddenly. 



Page | 626 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Somebody was climbing the steps up to the Owlery. 
Harry could hear two voices arguing, coming closer 
and closer. 

“ — that’s blackmail, that is, we could get into a lot of 
trouble for that — ” 

“ — we’ve tried being polite; it’s time to play dirty, like 
him. He wouldn’t like the Ministry of Magic knowing 
what he did — ” 

“I’m telling you, if you put that in writing, it’s 
blackmail!” 

“Yeah, and you won’t be complaining if we get a nice 
fat payoff, will you?” 

The Owlery door banged open. Fred and George came 
over the threshold, then froze at the sight of Harry, 
Ron, and Hermione. 

“What’re you doing here?” Ron and Fred said at the 
same time. 

“Sending a letter,” said Harry and George in unison. 
“What, at this time?” said Hermione and Fred. 

Fred grinned. 

“Fine — we won’t ask you what you’re doing, if you 
don’t ask us,” he said. 

He was holding a sealed envelope in his hands. Harry 
glanced at it, but Fred, whether accidentally or on 
purpose, shifted his hand so that the name on it was 
covered. 



Page | 627 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Well, don’t let us hold you up,” Fred said, making a 
mock bow and pointing at the door. 

Ron didn’t move. “Who’re you blackmailing?” he said. 

The grin vanished from Fred’s face. Harry saw George 
half glance at Fred, before smiling at Ron. 

“Don’t be stupid, I was only joking,” he said easily. 

“Didn’t sound like that,” said Ron. 

Fred and George looked at each other. Then Fred said 
abruptly, “I’ve told you before, Ron, keep your nose 
out if you like it the shape it is. Can’t see why you 
would, but — ” 

“It’s my business if you’re blackmailing someone,” 
said Ron. “George’s right, you could end up in serious 
trouble for that.” 

“Told you, I was joking,” said George. He walked over 
to Fred, pulled the letter out of his hands, and began 
attaching it to the leg of the nearest barn owl. “You’re 
starting to sound a bit like our dear older brother, 
you are, Ron. Carry on like this and you’ll be made a 
prefect.” 

“No, I won’t!” said Ron hotly. 

George carried the barn owl over to the window and it 
took off. George turned around and grinned at Ron. 

“Well, stop telling people what to do then. See you 
later.” 

He and Fred left the Owlery. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione stared at one another. 



Page | 628 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“You don’t think they know something about all this, 
do you?” Hermione whispered. “About Crouch and 
everything?” 

“No,” said Harry. “If it was something that serious, 
they’d tell someone. They’d tell Dumbledore.” 

Ron, however, was looking uncomfortable. 

“What’s the matter?” Hermione asked him. 

“Well ...” said Ron slowly, “I dunno if they would. 
They’re ... they’re obsessed with making money lately, 

I noticed it when I was hanging around with them — 
when — you know — ” 

“We weren’t talking.” Harry finished the sentence for 
him. “Yeah, but blackmail ...” 

“It’s this joke shop idea they’ve got,” said Ron. “I 
thought they were only saying it to annoy Mum, but 
they really mean it, they want to start one. They’ve 
only got a year left at Hogwarts, they keep going on 
about how it’s time to think about their future, and 
Dad can’t help them, and they need gold to get 
started.” 

Hermione was looking uncomfortable now. 

“Yes, but ... they wouldn’t do anything against the law 
to get gold.” 

“Wouldn’t they?” said Ron, looking skeptical. “I dunno 
... they don’t exactly mind breaking rules, do they?” 

“Yes, but this is the law,” said Hermione, looking 
scared. “This isn’t some silly school rule. ... They’ll get 
a lot more than detention for blackmail! Ron ... maybe 
you’d better tell Percy. ...” 

Page | 629 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Are you mad?” said Ron. “Tell Percy? He’d probably 
do a Crouch and turn them in.” He stared at the 
window through which Fred and Georges owl had 
departed, then said, “Come on, let’s get some 
breakfast.” 

“D’you think it’s too early to go and see Professor 
Moody?” Hermione said as they went down the spiral 
staircase. 

“Yes,” said Harry. “He’d probably blast us through the 
door if we wake him at the crack of dawn; he’ll think 
we’re trying to attack him while he’s asleep. Let’s give 
it till break.” 

History of Magic had rarely gone so slowly. Harry kept 
checking Ron’s watch, having finally discarded his 
own, but Ron’s was moving so slowly he could have 
sworn it had stopped working too. All three of them 
were so tired they could happily have put their heads 
down on the desks and slept; even Hermione wasn’t 
taking her usual notes, but was sitting with her head 
on her hand, gazing at Professor Binns with her eyes 
out of focus. 

When the bell finally rang, they hurried out into the 
corridors toward the Dark Arts classroom and found 
Professor Moody leaving it. He looked as tired as they 
felt. The eyelid of his normal eye was drooping, giving 
his face an even more lopsided appearance than 
usual. 

“Professor Moody?” Harry called as they made their 
way toward him through the crowd. 

“Hello, Potter,” growled Moody. His magical eye 
followed a couple of passing first years, who sped up, 
looking nervous; it rolled into the back of Moody’s 



Page | 630 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




head and watched them around the corner before he 
spoke again. 



“Come in here.” 

He stood back to let them into his empty classroom, 
limped in after them, and closed the door. 

“Did you find him?” Harry asked without preamble. 
“Mr. Crouch?” 

“No,” said Moody. He moved over to his desk, sat 
down, stretched out his wooden leg with a slight 
groan, and pulled out his hip flask. 

“Did you use the map?” Harry said. 

“Of course,” said Moody, taking a swig from his flask. 
“Took a leaf out of your book, Potter. Summoned it 
from my office into the forest. He wasn’t anywhere on 
there.” 

“So he did Disapparate?” said Ron. 

“You can’t Disapparate on the grounds, Ron\” said 
Hermione. “There are other ways he could have 
disappeared, aren’t there, Professor?” 

Moody’s magical eye quivered as it rested on 
Hermione. “You’re another one who might think about 
a career as an Auror,” he told her. “Mind works the 
right way, Granger.” 

Hermione flushed pink with pleasure. 

“Well, he wasn’t invisible,” said Harry. “The map 
shows invisible people. He must’ve left the grounds, 
then.” 

Page | 631 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“But under his own steam?” said Hermione eagerly, 

“or because someone made him?” 

“Yeah, someone could’ve — could’ve pulled him onto a 
broom and flown off with him, couldn’t they?” said 
Ron quickly, looking hopefully at Moody as if he too 
wanted to be told he had the makings of an Auror. 

“We can’t rule out kidnap,” growled Moody. 

“So,” said Ron, “d’you reckon he’s somewhere in 
Hogsmeade?” 

“Could be anywhere,” said Moody, shaking his head. 
“Only thing we know for sure is that he’s not here.” 

He yawned widely, so that his scars stretched, and 
his lopsided mouth revealed a number of missing 
teeth. Then he said, “Now, Dumbledore’s told me you 
three fancy yourselves as investigators, but there’s 
nothing you can do for Crouch. The Ministry’ll be 
looking for him now, Dumbledore’s notified them. 
Potter, you just keep your mind on the third task.” 

“What?” said Harry. “Oh yeah ...” 

He hadn’t given the maze a single thought since he’d 
left it with Krum the previous night. 

“Should be right up your street, this one,” said 
Moody, looking up at Harry and scratching his 
scarred and stubbly chin. “From what Dumbledore’s 
said, you’ve managed to get through stuff like this 
plenty of times. Broke your way through a series of 
obstacles guarding the Sorcerer’s Stone in your first 
year, didn’t you?” 

“We helped,” Ron said quickly. “Me and Hermione 
helped.” 

Page | 632 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Moody grinned. 



“Well, help him practice for this one, and I’ll be very 
surprised if he doesn’t win,” said Moody. “In the 
meantime ... constant vigilance, Potter. Constant 
vigilance.” He took another long draw from his hip 
flask, and his magical eye swiveled onto the window. 
The topmost sail of the Durmstrang ship was visible 
through it. 

“You two,” counseled Moody, his normal eye on Ron 
and Hermione, “you stick close to Potter, all right? I’m 
keeping an eye on things, but all the same ... you can 
never have too many eyes out.” 



•k k k 



Sirius sent their owl back the very next morning. It 
fluttered down beside Harry at the same moment that 
a tawny owl landed in front of Hermione, clutching a 
copy of the Daily Prophet in its beak. She took the 
newspaper, scanned the first few pages, said, “Ha! 

She hasn’t got wind of Crouch!” then joined Ron and 
Harry in reading what Sirius had to say on the 
mysterious events of the night before last. 

Harry — what do you think you are playing at, 
walking off into the forest with Viktor Krum? I want 
you to swear, by return owl, that you are not going to 
go walking with anyone else at night. There is 
somebody highly dangerous at Hogwarts. It is clear to 
me that they wanted to stop Crouch from seeing 
Dumbledore and you were probably feet away from 
them in the dark. You could have been killed. 

Your name didn’t get into the Goblet of Fire by 
accident. If someone’s trying to attack you, they’re on 

Page | 633 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




their last chance. Stay close to Ron and Hermione, do 
not leave Gryffindor Tower after hours, and arm 
yourself for the third task. Practice Stunning and 
Disarming. A few hexes wouldn’t go amiss either. 
There’s nothing you can do about Crouch. Keep your 
head down and look after yourself. I’m waiting for your 
letter giving me your word you won’t stray out-of- 
bounds again. 

Sirius 

“Who’s he, to lecture me about being out-of-bounds?” 
said Harry in mild indignation as he folded up Sirius’s 
letter and put it inside his robes. “After all the stuff he 
did at school!” 

“He’s worried about you!” said Hermione sharply. 

“Just like Moody and Hagrid! So listen to them!” 

“No one’s tried to attack me all year,” said Harry. “No 
one’s done anything to me at all — ” 

“Except put your name in the Goblet of Fire,” said 
Hermione. “And they must’ve done that for a reason, 
Harry. Snuffles is right. Maybe they’ve been biding 
their time. Maybe this is the task they’re going to get 
you.” 

“Look,” said Harry impatiently, “let’s say Sirius is 
right, and someone Stunned Krum to kidnap Crouch. 
Well, they would’ve been in the trees near us, 
wouldn’t they? But they waited till I was out of the 
way until they acted, didn’t they? So it doesn’t look 
like I’m their target, does it?” 

“They couldn’t have made it look like an accident if 
they’d murdered you in the forest!” said Hermione. 
“But if you die during a task — ” 



Page | 634 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“They didn’t care about attacking Krum, did they?” 
said Harry. “Why didn’t they just polish me off at the 
same time? They could’ve made it look like Krum and 
I had a duel or something.” 

“Harry, I don’t understand it either,” said Hermione 
desperately. “I just know there are a lot of odd things 
going on, and I don’t like it. ... Moody’s right — Sirius 
is right — you’ve got to get in training for the third 
task, straight away. And you make sure you write 
back to Sirius and promise him you’re not going to go 
sneaking off alone again.” 

The Hogwarts grounds never looked more inviting 
than when Harry had to stay indoors. For the next 
few days he spent all of his free time either in the 
library with Hermione and Ron, looking up hexes, or 
else in empty classrooms, which they sneaked into to 
practice. Harry was concentrating on the Stunning 
Spell, which he had never used before. The trouble 
was that practicing it involved certain sacrifices on 
Ron’s and Hermione ’s part. 

“Can’t we kidnap Mrs. Norris?” Ron suggested on 
Monday lunchtime as he lay flat on his back in the 
middle of their Charms classroom, having just been 
Stunned and reawoken by Harry for the fifth time in a 
row. “Let’s Stun her for a bit. Or you could use 
Dobby, Harry, I bet he’d do anything to help you. I’m 
not complaining or anything” — he got gingerly to his 
feet, rubbing his backside — “but I’m aching all over. 



“Well, you keep missing the cushions, don’t you!” said 
Hermione impatiently, rearranging the pile of 
cushions they had used for the Banishing Spell, 
which Flitwick had left in a cabinet. “Just try and fall 
backward!” 



Page | 635 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Once you’re Stunned, you can’t aim too well, 
Hermione!” said Ron angrily. “Why don’t you take a 
turn?” 

“Well, I think Harry’s got it now, anyway,” said 
Hermione hastily. “And we don’t have to worry about 
Disarming, because he’s been able to do that for ages. 
... I think we ought to start on some of these hexes 
this evening.” 

She looked down the list they had made in the 
library. 

“I like the look of this one,” she said, “this 
Impediment Curse. Should slow down anything that’s 
trying to attack you, Harry. We’ll start with that one.” 

The bell rang. They hastily shoved the cushions back 
into Flitwick’s cupboard and slipped out of the 
classroom. 

“See you at dinner!” said Hermione, and she set off for 
Arithmancy, while Harry and Ron headed toward 
North Tower, and Divination. Broad strips of dazzling 
gold sunlight fell across the corridor from the high 
windows. The sky outside was so brightly blue it 
looked as though it had been enameled. 

“It’s going to be boiling in Trelawney’s room, she never 
puts out that fire,” said Ron as they started up the 
staircase toward the silver ladder and the trapdoor. 

He was quite right. The dimly lit room was 
swelteringly hot. The fumes from the perfumed fire 
were heavier than ever. Harry’s head swam as he 
made his way over to one of the curtained windows. 
While Professor Trelawney was looking the other way, 
disentangling her shawl from a lamp, he opened it an 
inch or so and settled back in his chintz armchair, so 
Page | 636 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




that a soft breeze played across his face. It was 
extremely comfortable. 

“My dears,” said Professor Trelawney, sitting down in 
her winged armchair in front of the class and peering 
around at them all with her strangely enlarged eyes, 
“we have almost finished our work on planetary 
divination. Today, however, will be an excellent 
opportunity to examine the effects of Mars, for he is 
placed most interestingly at the present time. If you 
will all look this way, I will dim the lights. ...” 

She waved her wand and the lamps went out. The fire 
was the only source of light now. Professor Trelawney 
bent down and lifted, from under her chair, a 
miniature model of the solar system, contained within 
a glass dome. It was a beautiful thing; each of the 
moons glimmered in place around the nine planets 
and the fiery sun, all of them hanging in thin air 
beneath the glass. Harry watched lazily as Professor 
Trelawney began to point out the fascinating angle 
Mars was making to Neptune. The heavily perfumed 
fumes washed over him, and the breeze from the 
window played across his face. He could hear an 
insect humming gently somewhere behind the 
curtain. His eyelids began to droop. ... 

He was riding on the back of an eagle owl, soaring 
through the clear blue sky toward an old, ivy-covered 
house set high on a hillside. Lower and lower they 
flew, the wind blowing pleasantly in Harry’s face, until 
they reached a dark and broken window in the upper 
story of the house and entered. Now they were flying 
along a gloomy passageway, to a room at the very end 
. . . through the door they went, into a dark room 
whose windows were boarded up. ... 

Harry had left the owl’s back ... he was watching, 
now, as it fluttered across the room, into a chair with 

Page | 637 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




its back to him. ... There were two dark shapes on the 
floor beside the chair . . . both of them were stirring. . . . 

One was a huge snake . . . the other was a man ... a 
short, balding man, a man with watery eyes and a 
pointed nose ... he was wheezing and sobbing on the 
hearth rug. . . . 

“You are in luck, Wormtail,” said a cold, high-pitched 
voice from the depths of the chair in which the owl 
had landed. “You are very fortunate indeed. Your 
blunder has not ruined everything. He is dead.” 

“My Lord!” gasped the man on the floor. “My Lord, I 
am ... 1 am so pleased ... and so sorry. ...” 

“Nagini,” said the cold voice, “you are out of luck. 1 
will not be feeding Wormtail to you, after all ... but 
never mind, never mind . . . there is still Harry Potter. 



The snake hissed. Harry could see its tongue 
fluttering. 

“Now, Wormtail,” said the cold voice, “perhaps one 
more little reminder why I will not tolerate another 
blunder from you. ...” 

“My Lord ... no ... I beg you ...” 

The tip of a wand emerged from around the back of 
the chair, ft was pointing at Wormtail. 

“Crucio\” said the cold voice. 

Wormtail screamed, screamed as though every nerve 
in his body were on fire, the screaming filled Harry’s 
ears as the scar on his forehead seared with pain; he 



Page | 638 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




was yelling too. ... Voldemort would hear him, would 
know he was there. ... 



“Harry! Harry\” 

Harry opened his eyes. He was lying on the floor of 
Professor Trelawney’s room with his hands over his 
face. His scar was still burning so badly that his eyes 
were watering. The pain had been real. The whole 
class was standing around him, and Ron was 
kneeling next to him, looking terrified. 

“You all right?” he said. 

“Of course he isn’t!” said Professor Trelawney, looking 
thoroughly excited. Her great eyes loomed over Harry, 
gazing at him. “What was it, Potter? A premonition? 
An apparition? What did you see?” 

“Nothing,” Harry lied. He sat up. He could feel himself 
shaking. He couldn’t stop himself from looking 
around, into the shadows behind him; Voldemort’s 
voice had sounded so close. ... 

“You were clutching your scar!” said Professor 
Trelawney. “You were rolling on the floor, clutching 
your scar! Come now, Potter, I have experience in 
these matters!” 

Harry looked up at her. 

“I need to go to the hospital wing, I think,” he said. 
“Bad headache.” 

“My dear, you were undoubtedly stimulated by the 
extraordinary clairvoyant vibrations of my room!” said 
Professor Trelawney “If you leave now, you may lose 
the opportunity to see further than you have ever — ” 

Page | 639 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I don’t want to see anything except a headache cure,” 
said Harry. 

He stood up. The class backed away. They all looked 
unnerved. 

“See you later,” Harry muttered to Ron, and he picked 
up his bag and headed for the trapdoor, ignoring 
Professor Trelawney, who was wearing an expression 
of great frustration, as though she had just been 
denied a real treat. 

When Harry reached the bottom of her stepladder, 
however, he did not set off for the hospital wing. He 
had no intention whatsoever of going there. Sirius 
had told him what to do if his scar hurt him again, 
and Harry was going to follow his advice: He was 
going straight to Dumbledore’s office. He marched 
down the corridors, thinking about what he had seen 
in the dream ... it had been as vivid as the one that 
had awoken him on Privet Drive. ... He ran over the 
details in his mind, trying to make sure he could 
remember them. ... He had heard Voldemort accusing 
Wormtail of making a blunder ... but the owl had 
brought good news, the blunder had been repaired, 
somebody was dead ... so Wormtail was not going to 
be fed to the snake ... he, Harry, was going to be fed 
to it instead. ... 

Harry had walked right past the stone gargoyle 
guarding the entrance to Dumbledore’s office without 
noticing. He blinked, looked around, realized what he 
had done, and retraced his steps, stopping in front of 
it. Then he remembered that he didn’t know the 
password. 

“Sherbet lemon?” he tried tentatively. 

The gargoyle did not move. 

Page | 640 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Okay,” said Harry, staring at it, “Pear Drop. Er — 
Licorice Wand. Fizzing Whizbee. Drooble’s Best 
Blowing Gum. Bertie Bott’s Every Flavor Beans ... oh 
no, he doesn’t like them, does he? ... oh just open, 
can’t you?” he said angrily. “I really need to see him, 
it’s urgent!” 

The gargoyle remained immovable. 

Harry kicked it, achieving nothing but an excruciating 
pain in his big toe. 

“Chocolate Frog!” he yelled angrily, standing on one 
leg. “Sugar Quill! Cockroach Cluster!” 

The gargoyle sprang to life and jumped aside. Harry 
blinked. 

“Cockroach Cluster?” he said, amazed. “I was only 
joking. ...” 

He hurried through the gap in the walls and stepped 
onto the foot of a spiral stone staircase, which moved 
slowly upward as the doors closed behind him, taking 
him up to a polished oak door with a brass door 
knocker. 

He could hear voices from inside the office. He 
stepped off the moving staircase and hesitated, 
listening. 

“Dumbledore, I’m afraid I don’t see the connection, 
don’t see it at all!” It was the voice of the Minister of 
Magic, Cornelius Fudge. “Ludo says Bertha’s perfectly 
capable of getting herself lost. I agree we would have 
expected to have found her by now, but all the same, 
we’ve no evidence of foul play, Dumbledore, none at 
all. As for her disappearance being linked with Barty 
Crouch’s!” 

Page | 641 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“And what do you thinks happened to Barty Crouch, 
Minister?” said Moody’s growling voice. 

“I see two possibilities, Alastor,” said Fudge. “Either 
Crouch has finally cracked — more than likely, I’m 
sure you’ll agree, given his personal history — lost his 
mind, and gone wandering off somewhere — ” 

“He wandered extremely quickly, if that is the case, 
Cornelius,” said Dumbledore calmly. 

“Or else — well ...” Fudge sounded embarrassed. 

“Well, I’ll reserve judgment until after I’ve seen the 
place where he was found, but you say it was just 
past the Beauxbatons carriage? Dumbledore, you 
know what that woman is?” 

“I consider her to be a very able headmistress — and 
an excellent dancer,” said Dumbledore quietly. 

“Dumbledore, come!” said Fudge angrily. “Don’t you 
think you might be prejudiced in her favor because of 
Hagrid? They don’t all turn out harmless — if, indeed, 
you can call Hagrid harmless, with that monster 
fixation he’s got — ” 

“I no more suspect Madame Maxime than Hagrid,” 
said Dumbledore, just as calmly. “I think it possible 
that it is you who are prejudiced, Cornelius.” 

“Can we wrap up this discussion?” growled Moody. 

“Yes, yes, let’s go down to the grounds, then,” said 
Fudge impatiently. 

“No, it’s not that,” said Moody, “it’s just that Potter 
wants a word with you, Dumbledore. He’s just outside 
the door.” 



Page | 642 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






THE PENSIEVE 

The door of the office opened. 

“Hello, Potter,” said Moody. “Come in, then.” 

Harry walked inside. He had been inside 
Dumbledore’s office once before; it was a very 
beautiful, circular room, lined with pictures of 
previous headmasters and headmistresses of 
Hogwarts, all of whom were fast asleep, their chests 
rising and falling gently. 

Cornelius Fudge was standing beside Dumbledore’s 
desk, wearing his usual pinstriped cloak and holding 
his lime-green bowler hat. 

“Harry!” said Fudge jovially, moving forward. “How are 
you?” 

“Fine,” Harry lied. 



Page | 643 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



“We were just talking about the night when Mr. 
Crouch turned up on the grounds,” said Fudge. “It 
was you who found him, was it not?” 

“Yes,” said Harry. Then, feeling it was pointless to 
pretend that he hadn’t overheard what they had been 
saying, he added, “I didn’t see Madame Maxime 
anywhere, though, and she’d have a job hiding, 
wouldn’t she?” 

Dumbledore smiled at Harry behind Fudge’s back, his 
eyes twinkling. 

“Yes, well,” said Fudge, looking embarrassed, “we’re 
about to go for a short walk on the grounds, Harry, if 
you’ll excuse us ... perhaps if you just go back to your 
class — ” 

“I wanted to talk to you, Professor,” Harry said 
quickly, looking at Dumbledore, who gave him a swift, 
searching look. 

“Wait here for me, Harry,” he said. “Our examination 
of the grounds will not take long.” 

They trooped out in silence past him and closed the 
door. After a minute or so, Harry heard the clunks of 
Moody’s wooden leg growing fainter in the corridor 
below. He looked around. 

“Hello, Fawkes,” he said. 

Fawkes, Professor Dumbledore’s phoenix, was 
standing on his golden perch beside the door. The 
size of a swan, with magnificent scarlet-and-gold 
plumage, he swished his long tail and blinked 
benignly at Harry. 



Page | 644 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry sat down in a chair in front of Dumbledore’s 
desk. For several minutes, he sat and watched the old 
headmasters and headmistresses snoozing in their 
frames, thinking about what he had just heard, and 
running his fingers over his scar. It had stopped 
hurting now. 

He felt much calmer, somehow, now that he was in 
Dumbledore’s office, knowing he would shortly be 
telling him about the dream. Harry looked up at the 
walls behind the desk. The patched and ragged 
Sorting Hat was standing on a shelf. A glass case next 
to it held a magnificent silver sword with large rubies 
set into the hilt, which Harry recognized as the one he 
himself had pulled out of the Sorting Hat in his 
second year. The sword had once belonged to Godric 
Gryffindor, founder of Harry’s House. He was gazing 
at it, remembering how it had come to his aid when 
he had thought all hope was lost, when he noticed a 
patch of silvery light, dancing and shimmering on the 
glass case. He looked around for the source of the 
light and saw a sliver of silver-white shining brightly 
from within a black cabinet behind him, whose door 
had not been closed properly. Harry hesitated, 
glanced at Fawkes, then got up, walked across the 
office, and pulled open the cabinet door. 

A shallow stone basin lay there, with odd carvings 
around the edge: runes and symbols that Harry did 
not recognize. The silvery light was coming from the 
basin’s contents, which were like nothing Harry had 
ever seen before. He could not tell whether the 
substance was liquid or gas. It was a bright, whitish 
silver, and it was moving ceaselessly; the surface of it 
became ruffled like water beneath wind, and then, 
like clouds, separated and swirled smoothly. It looked 
like light made liquid — or like wind made solid — 
Harry couldn’t make up his mind. 



Page | 645 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




He wanted to touch it, to find out what it felt like, but 
nearly four years’ experience of the magical world told 
him that sticking his hand into a bowl full of some 
unknown substance was a very stupid thing to do. He 
therefore pulled his wand out of the inside of his 
robes, cast a nervous look around the office, looked 
back at the contents of the basin, and prodded them. 

The surface of the silvery stuff inside the basin began 
to swirl very fast. 

Harry bent closer, his head right inside the cabinet. 
The silvery substance had become transparent; it 
looked like glass. He looked down into it, expecting to 
see the stone bottom of the basin — and saw instead 
an enormous room below the surface of the 
mysterious substance, a room into which he seemed 
to be looking through a circular window in the ceiling. 

The room was dimly lit; he thought it might even be 
underground, for there were no windows, merely 
torches in brackets such as the ones that illuminated 
the walls of Hogwarts. Lowering his face so that his 
nose was a mere inch away from the glassy 
substance, Harry saw that rows and rows of witches 
and wizards were seated around every wall on what 
seemed to be benches rising in levels. An empty chair 
stood in the very center of the room. There was 
something about the chair that gave Harry an 
ominous feeling. Chains encircled the arms of it, as 
though its occupants were usually tied to it. 

Where was this place? It surely wasn’t Hogwarts; he 
had never seen a room like that here in the castle. 
Moreover, the crowd in the mysterious room at the 
bottom of the basin was comprised of adults, and 
Harry knew there were not nearly that many teachers 
at Hogwarts. They seemed, he thought, to be waiting 
for something; even though he could only see the tops 
Page | 646 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




of their hats, all of their faces seemed to be pointing 
in one direction, and none of them were talking to one 
another. 

The basin being circular, and the room he was 
observing square, Harry could not make out what was 
going on in the corners of it. He leaned even closer, 
tilting his head, trying to see . . . 

The tip of his nose touched the strange substance 
into which he was staring. 

Dumbledore’s office gave an almighty lurch — Harry 
was thrown forward and pitched headfirst into the 
substance inside the basin — 

But his head did not hit the stone bottom. He was 
falling through something icy-cold and black; it was 
like being sucked into a dark whirlpool — 

And suddenly, Harry found himself sitting on a bench 
at the end of the room inside the basin, a bench 
raised high above the others. He looked up at the 
high stone ceiling, expecting to see the circular 
window through which he had just been staring, but 
there was nothing there but dark, solid stone. 

Breathing hard and fast, Harry looked around him. 
Not one of the witches and wizards in the room (and 
there were at least two hundred of them) was looking 
at him. Not one of them seemed to have noticed that a 
fourteen-year- old boy had just dropped from the 
ceiling into their midst. Harry turned to the wizard 
next to him on the bench and uttered a loud cry of 
surprise that reverberated around the silent room. 

He was sitting right next to Albus Dumbledore. 



Page | 647 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Professor!” Harry said in a kind of strangled whisper. 
“I’m sorry — I didn’t mean to — I was just looking at 
that basin in your cabinet — I — where are we?” 

But Dumbledore didn’t move or speak. He ignored 
Harry completely. Like every other wizard on the 
benches, he was staring into the far corner of the 
room, where there was a door. 

Harry gazed, nonplussed, at Dumbledore, then 
around at the silently watchful crowd, then back at 
Dumbledore. And then it dawned on him. ... 

Once before, Harry had found himself somewhere that 
nobody could see or hear him. That time, he had 
fallen through a page in an enchanted diary, right 
into somebody else’s memory ... and unless he was 
very much mistaken, something of the sort had 
happened again. ... 

Harry raised his right hand, hesitated, and then 
waved it energetically in front of Dumbledore ’s face. 
Dumbledore did not blink, look around at Harry, or 
indeed move at all. And that, in Harry’s opinion, 
settled the matter. Dumbledore wouldn’t ignore him 
like that. He was inside a memory, and this was not 
the present-day Dumbledore. Yet it couldn’t be that 
long ago . . . the Dumbledore sitting next to him now 
was silver-haired, just like the present-day 
Dumbledore. But what was this place? What were all 
these wizards waiting for? 

Harry looked around more carefully. The room, as he 
had suspected when observing it from above, was 
almost certainly underground — more of a dungeon 
than a room, he thought. There was a bleak and 
forbidding air about the place; there were no pictures 
on the walls, no decorations at all; just these serried 
rows of benches, rising in levels all around the room, 
Page | 648 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




all positioned so that they had a clear view of that 
chair with the chains on its arms. 

Before Harry could reach any conclusions about the 
place in which they were, he heard footsteps. The 
door in the corner of the dungeon opened and three 
people entered — or at least one man, flanked by two 
dementors. 

Harry’s insides went cold. The dementors — tall, 
hooded creatures whose faces were concealed — were 
gliding slowly toward the chair in the center of the 
room, each grasping one of the man’s arms with their 
dead and rotten-looking hands. The man between 
them looked as though he was about to faint, and 
Harry couldn’t blame him ... he knew the dementors 
could not touch him inside a memory, but he 
remembered their power only too well. The watching 
crowd recoiled slightly as the dementors placed the 
man in the chained chair and glided back out of the 
room. The door swung shut behind them. 

Harry looked down at the man now sitting in the 
chair and saw that it was Karkaroff. 

Unlike Dumbledore, Karkaroff looked much younger; 
his hair and goatee were black. He was not dressed in 
sleek furs, but in thin and ragged robes. He was 
shaking. Even as Harry watched, the chains on the 
arms of the chair glowed suddenly gold and snaked 
their way up Karkaroff’s arms, binding him there. 

“Igor Karkaroff,” said a curt voice to Harry’s left. 

Harry looked around and saw Mr. Crouch standing 
up in the middle of the bench beside him. Crouch’s 
hair was dark, his face was much less lined, he 
looked fit and alert. “You have been brought from 
Azkaban to present evidence to the Ministry of Magic. 



Page | 649 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




You have given us to understand that you have 
important information for us.” 

Karkaroff straightened himself as best he could, 
tightly bound to the chair. 

“I have, sir,” he said, and although his voice was very 
scared, Harry could still hear the familiar unctuous 
note in it. “I wish to be of use to the Ministry. I wish 
to help. I — I know that the Ministry is trying to — to 
round up the last of the Dark Lord’s supporters. I am 
eager to assist in any way I can. ...” 

There was a murmur around the benches. Some of 
the wizards and witches were surveying Karkaroff 
with interest, others with pronounced mistrust. Then 
Harry heard, quite distinctly, from Dumbledore’s 
other side, a familiar, growling voice saying, “Filth.” 

Harry leaned forward so that he could see past 
Dumbledore. Mad-Eye Moody was sitting there — 
except that there was a very noticeable difference in 
his appearance. He did not have his magical eye, but 
two normal ones. Both were looking down upon 
Karkaroff, and both were narrowed in intense dislike. 

“Crouch is going to let him out,” Moody breathed 
quietly to Dumbledore. “He’s done a deal with him. 
Took me six months to track him down, and Crouch 
is going to let him go if he’s got enough new names. 
Let’s hear his information, I say, and throw him 
straight back to the dementors.” 

Dumbledore made a small noise of dissent through 
his long, crooked nose. 

“Ah, I was forgetting ... you don’t like the dementors, 
do you, Albus?” said Moody with a sardonic smile. 



Page | 650 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Dumbledore calmly, “I’m afraid I don’t. I 
have long felt the Ministry is wrong to ally itself with 
such creatures.” 

“But for filth like this ...” Moody said softly. 

“You say you have names for us, Karkaroff,” said Mr. 
Crouch. “Let us hear them, please.” 

“You must understand,” said Karkaroff hurriedly, 

“that He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named operated always in 
the greatest secrecy. . . . He preferred that we — I 
mean to say, his supporters — and I regret now, very 
deeply, that I ever counted myself among them — ” 

“Get on with it,” sneered Moody. 

“ — we never knew the names of every one of our 
fellows — He alone knew exactly who we all were — ” 

“Which was a wise move, wasn’t it, as it prevented 
someone like you, Karkaroff, from turning all of them 
in,” muttered Moody. 

“Yet you say you have some names for us?” said Mr. 
Crouch. 

“I — I do,” said Karkaroff breathlessly. “And these 
were important supporters, mark you. People I saw 
with my own eyes doing his bidding. I give this 
information as a sign that I fully and totally renounce 
him, and am filled with a remorse so deep I can 
barely — ” 

“These names are?” said Mr. Crouch sharply. 
Karkaroff drew a deep breath. 



Page | 651 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“There was Antonin Dolohov,” he said. “I — I saw him 
torture countless Muggles and — and non-supporters 
of the Dark Lord.” 



“And helped him do it,” murmured Moody. 

“We have already apprehended Dolohov,” said 
Crouch. “He was caught shortly after yourself.” 

“Indeed?” said Karkaroff, his eyes widening. “I — I am 
delighted to hear it!” 

But he didn’t look it. Harry could tell that this news 
had come as a real blow to him. One of his names 
was worthless. 

“Any others?” said Crouch coldly. 

“Why, yes ... there was Rosier,” said Karkaroff 
hurriedly. “Evan Rosier.” 

“Rosier is dead,” said Crouch. “He was caught shortly 
after you were too. He preferred to fight rather than 
come quietly and was killed in the struggle.” 

“Took a bit of me with him, though,” whispered 
Moody to Harry’s right. Harry looked around at him 
once more, and saw him indicating the large chunk 
out of his nose to Dumbledore. 

“No — no more than Rosier deserved!” said Karkaroff, 
a real note of panic in his voice now. Harry could see 
that he was starting to worry that none of his 
information would be of any use to the Ministry. 
Karkaroff’s eyes darted toward the door in the corner, 
behind which the dementors undoubtedly still stood, 
waiting. 

“Any more?” said Crouch. 

Page | 652 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Yes!” said Karkaroff. “There was Travers — he helped 
murder the McKinnons! Mulciber — he specialized in 
the Imperius Curse, forced countless people to do 
horrific things! Rookwood, who was a spy, and passed 
He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named useful information from 
inside the Ministry itself!” 

Harry could tell that, this time, Karkaroff had struck 
gold. The watching crowd was all murmuring 
together. 

“Rookwood?” said Mr. Crouch, nodding to a witch 
sitting in front of him, who began scribbling upon her 
piece of parchment. “Augustus Rookwood of the 
Department of Mysteries?” 

“The very same,” said Karkaroff eagerly. “I believe he 
used a network of well-placed wizards, both inside the 
Ministry and out, to collect information — ” 

“But Travers and Mulciber we have,” said Mr. Crouch. 
“Very well, Karkaroff, if that is all, you will be 
returned to Azkaban while we decide — ” 

“Not yet!” cried Karkaroff, looking quite desperate. 
“Wait, I have more!” 

Harry could see him sweating in the torchlight, his 
white skin contrasting strongly with the black of his 
hair and beard. 

“Snape!” he shouted. “Severus Snape!” 

“Snape has been cleared by this council,” said Crouch 
disdainfully. “He has been vouched for by Albus 
Dumbledore.” 



Page | 653 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“No!” shouted Karkaroff, straining at the chains that 
bound him to the chair. “I assure you! Severus Snape 
is a Death Eater!” 

Dumbledore had gotten to his feet. 

“I have given evidence already on this matter,” he said 
calmly. “Severus Snape was indeed a Death Eater. 
However, he rejoined our side before Lord Voldemort’s 
downfall and turned spy for us, at great personal risk. 
He is now no more a Death Eater than I am.” 

Harry turned to look at Mad-Eye Moody. He was 
wearing a look of deep skepticism behind 
Dumbledore ’s back. 

“Very well, Karkaroff,” Crouch said coldly, “you have 
been of assistance. I shall review your case. You will 
return to Azkaban in the meantime. ...” 

Mr. Crouch’s voice faded. Harry looked around; the 
dungeon was dissolving as though it were made of 
smoke; everything was fading; he could see only his 
own body — all else was swirling darkness. ... 

And then, the dungeon returned. Harry was sitting in 
a different seat, still on the highest bench, but now to 
the left side of Mr. Crouch. The atmosphere seemed 
quite different: relaxed, even cheerful. The witches 
and wizards all around the walls were talking to one 
another, almost as though they were at some sort of 
sporting event. Harry noticed a witch halfway up the 
rows of benches opposite. She had short blonde hair, 
was wearing magenta robes, and was sucking the end 
of an acid-green quill. It was, unmistakably, a 
younger Rita Skeeter. Harry looked around; 
Dumbledore was sitting beside him again, wearing 
different robes. Mr. Crouch looked more tired and 



Page | 654 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




somehow fiercer, gaunter. ... Harry understood. It was 
a different memory, a different day ... a different trial. 

The door in the corner opened, and Ludo Bagman 
walked into the room. 

This was not, however, a Ludo Bagman gone to seed, 
but a Ludo Bagman who was clearly at the height of 
his Quidditch-playing fitness. His nose wasn’t broken 
now; he was tall and lean and muscular. Bagman 
looked nervous as he sat down in the chained chair, 
but it did not bind him there as it had bound 
Karkaroff, and Bagman, perhaps taking heart from 
this, glanced around at the watching crowd, waved at 
a couple of them, and managed a small smile. 

“Ludo Bagman, you have been brought here in front 
of the Council of Magical Law to answer charges 
relating to the activities of the Death Eaters,” said Mr. 
Crouch. “We have heard the evidence against you, 
and are about to reach our verdict. Do you have 
anything to add to your testimony before we 
pronounce judgment?” 

Harry couldn’t believe his ears. Ludo Bagman, a 
Death Eater? 

“Only,” said Bagman, smiling awkwardly, “well — I 
know I’ve been a bit of an idiot — ” 

One or two wizards and witches in the surrounding 
seats smiled indulgently. Mr. Crouch did not appear 
to share their feelings. He was staring down at Ludo 
Bagman with an expression of the utmost severity 
and dislike. 

“You never spoke a truer word, boy,” someone 
muttered dryly to Dumbledore behind Harry. He 
looked around and saw Moody sitting there again. “If I 

Page | 655 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




didn’t know he’d always been dim, I’d have said some 
of those Bludgers had permanently affected his brain. 



“Ludovic Bagman, you were caught passing 
information to Lord Voldemort’s supporters,” said Mr. 
Crouch. “For this, I suggest a term of imprisonment 
in Azkaban lasting no less than — ” 

But there was an angry outcry from the surrounding 
benches. Several of the witches and wizards around 
the walls stood up, shaking their heads, and even 
their fists, at Mr. Crouch. 

“But I’ve told you, I had no idea!” Bagman called 
earnestly over the crowd’s babble, his round blue eyes 
widening. “None at all! Old Rookwood was a friend of 
my dad’s ... never crossed my mind he was in with 
You-Know-Who! I thought I was collecting information 
for our side! And Rookwood kept talking about getting 
me a job in the Ministry later on ... once my 
Quidditch days are over, you know ... I mean, I can’t 
keep getting hit by Bludgers for the rest of my life, 
can I?” 

There were titters from the crowd. 

“It will be put to the vote,” said Mr. Crouch coldly. He 
turned to the right-hand side of the dungeon. “The 
jury will please raise their hands ... those in favor of 
imprisonment ...” 

Harry looked toward the right-hand side of the 
dungeon. Not one person raised their hand. Many of 
the witches and wizards around the walls began to 
clap. One of the witches on the jury stood up. 

“Yes?” barked Crouch. 



Page | 656 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“We’d just like to congratulate Mr. Bagman on his 
splendid performance for England in the Quidditch 
match against Turkey last Saturday,” the witch said 
breathlessly. 

Mr. Crouch looked furious. The dungeon was ringing 
with applause now. Bagman got to his feet and 
bowed, beaming. 

“Despicable,” Mr. Crouch spat at Dumbledore, sitting 
down as Bagman walked out of the dungeon. 
“Rookwood get him a job indeed. ... The day Ludo 
Bagman joins us will be a sad day indeed for the 
Ministry. ...” 

And the dungeon dissolved again. When it had 
returned, Harry looked around. He and Dumbledore 
were still sitting beside Mr. Crouch, but the 
atmosphere could not have been more different. There 
was total silence, broken only by the dry sobs of a 
frail, wispy-looking witch in the seat next to Mr. 
Crouch. She was clutching a handkerchief to her 
mouth with trembling hands. Harry looked up at 
Crouch and saw that he looked gaunter and grayer 
than ever before. A nerve was twitching in his temple. 

“Bring them in,” he said, and his voice echoed 
through the silent dungeon. 

The door in the corner opened yet again. Six 
dementors entered this time, flanking a group of four 
people. Harry saw the people in the crowd turn to 
look up at Mr. Crouch. A few of them whispered to 
one another. 

The dementors placed each of the four people in the 
four chairs with chained arms that now stood on the 
dungeon floor. There was a thickset man who stared 
blankly up at Crouch; a thinner and more nervous- 

Page | 657 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




looking man, whose eyes were darting around the 
crowd; a woman with thick, shining dark hair and 
heavily hooded eyes, who was sitting in the chained 
chair as though it were a throne; and a boy in his late 
teens, who looked nothing short of petrified. He was 
shivering, his straw-colored hair all over his face, his 
freckled skin milk-white. The wispy little witch beside 
Crouch began to rock backward and forward in her 
seat, whimpering into her handkerchief. 

Crouch stood up. He looked down upon the four in 
front of him, and there was pure hatred in his face. 

“You have been brought here before the Council of 
Magical Law,” he said clearly, “so that we may pass 
judgment on you, for a crime so heinous — ” 

“Father,” said the boy with the straw-colored hair. 
“Father ... please ...” 

“ — that we have rarely heard the like of it within this 
court,” said Crouch, speaking more loudly, drowning 
out his son’s voice. “We have heard the evidence 
against you. The four of you stand accused of 
capturing an Auror — Frank Longbottom — and 
subjecting him to the Cruciatus Curse, believing him 
to have knowledge of the present whereabouts of your 
exiled master, He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named — ” 

“Father, I didn’t!” shrieked the boy in chains below. “I 
didn’t, I swear it, Father, don’t send me back to the 
dementors — ” 

“You are further accused,” bellowed Mr. Crouch, “of 
using the Cruciatus Curse on Frank Longbottom’s 
wife, when he would not give you information. You 
planned to restore He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named to 
power, and to resume the lives of violence you 



Page | 658 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




presumably led while he was strong. I now ask the 
jury — ” 

“Mother!” screamed the boy below, and the wispy little 
witch beside Crouch began to sob, rocking backward 
and forward. “Mother, stop him, Mother, I didn’t do it, 
it wasn’t me!” 

“I now ask the jury,” shouted Mr. Crouch, “to raise 
their hands if they believe, as I do, that these crimes 
deserve a life sentence in Azkaban!” 

In unison, the witches and wizards along the right- 
hand side of the dungeon raised their hands. The 
crowd around the walls began to clap as it had for 
Bagman, their faces full of savage triumph. The boy 
began to scream. 

“No! Mother, no! I didn’t do it, I didn’t do it, I didn’t 
know! Don’t send me there, don’t let him!” 

The dementors were gliding back into the room. The 
boys’ three companions rose quietly from their seats; 
the woman with the heavy-lidded eyes looked up at 
Crouch and called, “The Dark Lord will rise again, 
Crouch! Throw us into Azkaban; we will wait! He will 
rise again and will come for us, he will reward us 
beyond any of his other supporters! We alone were 
faithful! We alone tried to find him!” 

But the boy was trying to fight off the dementors, 
even though Harry could see their cold, draining 
power starting to affect him. The crowd was jeering, 
some of them on their feet, as the woman swept out of 
the dungeon, and the boy continued to struggle. 

“I’m your son!” he screamed up at Crouch. “I’m your 
son!” 



Page | 659 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“You are no son of mine!” bellowed Mr. Crouch, his 
eyes bulging suddenly. “I have no son!” 

The wispy witch beside him gave a great gasp and 
slumped in her seat. She had fainted. Crouch 
appeared not to have noticed. 

“Take them away!” Crouch roared at the dementors, 
spit flying from his mouth. “Take them away, and 
may they rot there!” 

“Father! Father, I wasn’t involved! No! No! Father, 
please!” 

“I think, Harry, it is time to return to my office,” said 
a quiet voice in Harry’s ear. 

Harry started. He looked around. Then he looked on 
his other side. 

There was an Albus Dumbledore sitting on his right, 
watching Crouch’s son being dragged away by the 
dementors — and there was an Albus Dumbledore on 
his left, looking right at him. 

“Come,” said the Dumbledore on his left, and he put 
his hand under Harry’s elbow. Harry felt himself 
rising into the air; the dungeon dissolved around him; 
for a moment, all was blackness, and then he felt as 
though he had done a slow-motion somersault, 
suddenly landing flat on his feet, in what seemed like 
the dazzling light of Dumbledore ’s sunlit office. The 
stone basin was shimmering in the cabinet in front of 
him, and Albus Dumbledore was standing beside 
him. 

“Professor,” Harry gasped, “I know I shouldn’t’ve — I 
didn’t mean — the cabinet door was sort of open and 



Page | 660 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I quite understand,” said Dumbledore. He lifted the 
basin, carried it over to his desk, placed it upon the 
polished top, and sat down in the chair behind it. He 
motioned for Harry to sit down opposite him. 

Harry did so, staring at the stone basin. The contents 
had returned to their original, silvery-white state, 
swirling and rippling beneath his gaze. 

“What is it?” Harry asked shakily. 

“This? It is called a Pensieve,” said Dumbledore. “I 
sometimes find, and I am sure you know the feeling, 
that I simply have too many thoughts and memories 
crammed into my mind.” 

“Er,” said Harry, who couldn’t truthfully say that he 
had ever felt anything of the sort. 

“At these times,” said Dumbledore, indicating the 
stone basin, “I use the Pensieve. One simply siphons 
the excess thoughts from one’s mind, pours them into 
the basin, and examines them at one’s leisure. It 
becomes easier to spot patterns and links, you 
understand, when they are in this form.” 

“You mean . . . that stuff’s your thoughts?” Harry said, 
staring at the swirling white substance in the basin. 

“Certainly,” said Dumbledore. “Let me show you.” 

Dumbledore drew his wand out of the inside of his 
robes and placed the tip into his own silvery hair, 
near his temple. When he took the wand away, hair 
seemed to be clinging to it — but then Harry saw that 
it was in fact a glistening strand of the same strange 
silvery-white substance that filled the Pensieve. 
Dumbledore added this fresh thought to the basin, 
and Harry, astonished, saw his own face swimming 
Page | 661 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




around the surface of the bowl. Dumbledore placed 
his long hands on either side of the Pensieve and 
swirled it, rather as a gold prospector would pan for 
fragments of gold . . . and Harry saw his own face 
change smoothly into Snape’s, who opened his mouth 
and spoke to the ceiling, his voice echoing slightly. 

“It’s coming back ... Karkaroff’s too ... stronger and 
clearer than ever ...” 

“A connection I could have made without assistance,” 
Dumbledore sighed, “but never mind.” He peered over 
the top of his half-moon spectacles at Harry, who was 
gaping at Snape’s face, which was continuing to swirl 
around the bowl. “I was using the Pensieve when Mr. 
Fudge arrived for our meeting and put it away rather 
hastily. Undoubtedly I did not fasten the cabinet door 
properly. Naturally, it would have attracted your 
attention.” 

“I’m sorry,” Harry mumbled. 

Dumbledore shook his head. “Curiosity is not a sin,” 
he said. “But we should exercise caution with our 
curiosity ... yes, indeed ...” 

Frowning slightly, he prodded the thoughts within the 
basin with the tip of his wand. Instantly, a figure rose 
out of it, a plump, scowling girl of about sixteen, who 
began to revolve slowly, with her feet still in the basin. 
She took no notice whatsoever of Harry or Professor 
Dumbledore. When she spoke, her voice echoed as 
Snape’s had done, as though it were coming from the 
depths of the stone basin. “He put a hex on me, 
Professor Dumbledore, and I was only teasing him, 
sir. I only said I’d seen him kissing Florence behind 
the greenhouses last Thursday. ...” 



Page | 662 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“But why, Bertha,” said Dumbledore sadly, looking up 
at the now silently revolving girl, “why did you have to 
follow him in the first place?” 

“Bertha?” Harry whispered, looking up at her. “Is that 
— was that Bertha Jorkins?” 

“Yes,” said Dumbledore, prodding the thoughts in the 
basin again; Bertha sank back into them, and they 
became silvery and opaque once more. “That was 
Bertha as I remember her at school.” 

The silvery light from the Pensieve illuminated 
Dumbledore’s face, and it struck Harry suddenly how 
very old he was looking. He knew, of course, that 
Dumbledore was getting on in years, but somehow he 
never really thought of Dumbledore as an old man. 

“So, Harry,” said Dumbledore quietly. “Before you got 
lost in my thoughts, you wanted to tell me 
something.” 

“Yes,” said Harry. “Professor — I was in Divination 
just now, and — er — I fell asleep.” 

He hesitated here, wondering if a reprimand was 
coming, but Dumbledore merely said, “Quite 
understandable. Continue.” 

“Well, I had a dream,” said Harry. “A dream about 
Lord Voldemort. He was torturing Wormtail ... you 
know who Wormtail — ” 

“I do know,” said Dumbledore promptly. “Please 
continue.” 

“Voldemort got a letter from an owl. He said 
something like, Wormtail’s blunder had been 
repaired. He said someone was dead. Then he said, 

Page | 663 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Wormtail wouldn’t be fed to the snake — there was a 
snake beside his chair. He said — he said he’d be 
feeding me to it, instead. Then he did the Cruciatus 
Curse on Wormtail — and my scar hurt,” Harry said. 
“It woke me up, it hurt so badly.” 

Dumbledore merely looked at him. 

“Er — that’s all,” said Harry. 

“I see,” said Dumbledore quietly. “I see. Now, has your 
scar hurt at any other time this year, excepting the 
time it woke you up over the summer?” 

“No, I — how did you know it woke me up over the 
summer?” said Harry, astonished. 

“You are not Sirius’s only correspondent,” said 
Dumbledore. “I have also been in contact with him 
ever since he left Hogwarts last year. It was I who 
suggested the mountainside cave as the safest place 
for him to stay.” 

Dumbledore got up and began walking up and down 
behind his desk. Every now and then, he placed his 
wand tip to his temple, removed another shining 
silver thought, and added it to the Pensieve. The 
thoughts inside began to swirl so fast that Harry 
couldn’t make out anything clearly: It was merely a 
blur of color. 

“Professor?” he said quietly, after a couple of minutes. 

Dumbledore stopped pacing and looked at Harry. 

“My apologies,” he said quietly. He sat back down at 
his desk. 

“D’you — d’you know why my scar’s hurting me?” 

Page | 664 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore looked very intently at Harry for a 
moment, and then said, “I have a theory, no more 
than that. ... It is my belief that your scar hurts both 
when Lord Voldemort is near you, and when he is 
feeling a particularly strong surge of hatred.” 

“But ... why?” 

“Because you and he are connected by the curse that 
failed,” said Dumbledore. “That is no ordinary scar.” 

“So you think . . . that dream . . . did it really happen?” 

“It is possible,” said Dumbledore. “I would say — 
probable. Harry — did you see Voldemort?” 

“No,” said Harry. “Just the back of his chair. But — 
there wouldn’t have been anything to see, would 
there? I mean, he hasn’t got a body, has he? But ... 
but then how could he have held the wand?” Harry 
said slowly. 

“How indeed?” muttered Dumbledore. “How indeed 



Neither Dumbledore nor Harry spoke for a while. 
Dumbledore was gazing across the room, and, every 
now and then, placing his wand tip to his temple and 
adding another shining silver thought to the seething 
mass within the Pensieve. 

“Professor,” Harry said at last, “do you think he’s 
getting stronger?” 

“Voldemort?” said Dumbledore, looking at Harry over 
the Pensieve. It was the characteristic, piercing look 
Dumbledore had given him on other occasions, and 
always made Harry feel as though Dumbledore were 
seeing right through him in a way that even Moody’s 
Page | 665 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




magical eye could not. “Once again, Harry, I can only 
give you my suspicions.” 

Dumbledore sighed again, and he looked older, and 
wearier, than ever. 

“The years of Voldemort’s ascent to power,” he said, 
“were marked with disappearances. Bertha Jorkins 
has vanished without a trace in the place where 
Voldemort was certainly known to be last. Mr. Crouch 
too has disappeared ... within these very grounds. 

And there was a third disappearance, one which the 
Ministry, I regret to say, do not consider of any 
importance, for it concerns a Muggle. His name was 
Frank Bryce, he lived in the village where Voldemort’s 
father grew up, and he has not been seen since last 
August. You see, I read the Muggle newspapers, 
unlike most of my Ministry friends.” 

Dumbledore looked very seriously at Harry. 

“These disappearances seem to me to be linked. The 
Ministry disagrees — as you may have heard, while 
waiting outside my office.” 

Harry nodded. Silence fell between them again, 
Dumbledore extracting thoughts every now and then. 
Harry felt as though he ought to go, but his curiosity 
held him in his chair. 

“Professor?” he said again. 

“Yes, Harry?” said Dumbledore. 

“Er . . . could I ask you about . . . that court thing I was 
in ... in the Pensieve?” 



Page | 666 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“You could,” said Dumbledore heavily. “I attended it 
many times, but some trials come back to me more 
clearly than others ... particularly now. ...” 

“You know — you know the trial you found me in? 

The one with Crouch’s son? Well ... were they talking 
about Neville’s parents?” 

Dumbledore gave Harry a very sharp look. “Has 
Neville never told you why he has been brought up by 
his grandmother?” he said. 

Harry shook his head, wondering, as he did so, how 
he could have failed to ask Neville this, in almost four 
years of knowing him. 

“Yes, they were talking about Neville’s parents,” said 
Dumbledore. “His father, Frank, was an Auror just 
like Professor Moody. He and his wife were tortured 
for information about Voldemort’s whereabouts after 
he lost his powers, as you heard.” 

“So they’re dead?” said Harry quietly. 

“No,” said Dumbledore, his voice full of a bitterness 
Harry had never heard there before. “They are insane. 
They are both in St. Mungo’s Hospital for Magical 
Maladies and Injuries. I believe Neville visits them, 
with his grandmother, during the holidays. They do 
not recognize him.” 

Harry sat there, horror-struck. He had never known 
... never, in four years, bothered to find out ... 

“The Longbottoms were very popular,” said 
Dumbledore. “The attacks on them came after 
Voldemort’s fall from power, just when everyone 
thought they were safe. Those attacks caused a wave 
of fury such as I have never known. The Ministry was 
Page | 667 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




under great pressure to catch those who had done it. 
Unfortunately, the Longbottoms’ evidence was — 
given their condition — none too reliable.” 

“Then Mr. Crouch’s son might not have been 
involved?” said Harry slowly. 

Dumbledore shook his head. 

“As to that, I have no idea.” 

Harry sat in silence once more, watching the contents 
of the Pensieve swirl. There were two more questions 
he was burning to ask . . . but they concerned the guilt 
of living people. ... 

“Er,” he said, “Mr. Bagman ...” 

"... has never been accused of any Dark activity 
since,” said Dumbledore calmly. 

“Right,” said Harry hastily, staring at the contents of 
the Pensieve again, which were swirling more slowly 
now that Dumbledore had stopped adding thoughts. 
“And ... er ...” 

But the Pensieve seemed to be asking his question for 
him. Snape’s face was swimming on the surface 
again. Dumbledore glanced down into it, and then up 
at Harry. 

“No more has Professor Snape,” he said. 

Harry looked into Dumbledore ’s light blue eyes, and 
the thing he really wanted to know spilled out of his 
mouth before he could stop it. 

“What made you think he’d really stopped supporting 
Voldemort, Professor?” 

Page | 668 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore held Harry’s gaze for a few seconds, and 
then said, “That, Harry, is a matter between Professor 
Snape and myself.” 

Harry knew that the interview was over; Dumbledore 
did not look angry, yet there was a finality in his tone 
that told Harry it was time to go. He stood up, and so 
did Dumbledore. 

“Harry,” he said as Harry reached the door. “Please do 
not speak about Neville’s parents to anybody else. He 
has the right to let people know, when he is ready.” 

“Yes, Professor,” said Harry, turning to go. 

“And — ” 

Harry looked back. Dumbledore was standing over 
the Pensieve, his face lit from beneath by its silvery 
spots of light, looking older than ever. He stared at 
Harry for a moment, and then said, “Good luck with 
the third task.” 



Page | 669 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






THE THIRD TASK 

“Dumbledore reckons You- Know- Who’s getting 
stronger again as well?” Ron whispered. 

Everything Harry had seen in the Pensieve, nearly 
everything Dumbledore had told and shown him 
afterward, he had now shared with Ron and 
Hermione — and, of course, with Sirius, to whom 
Harry had sent an owl the moment he had left 
Dumbledore’s office. Harry, Ron, and Hermione sat 
up late in the common room once again that night, 
talking it all over until Harry’s mind was reeling, until 
he understood what Dumbledore had meant about a 
head becoming so full of thoughts that it would have 
been a relief to siphon them off. 

Ron stared into the common room fire. Harry thought 
he saw Ron shiver slightly, even though the evening 
was warm. 

“And he trusts Snape?” Ron said. “He really trusts 
Snape, even though he knows he was a Death Eater?” 



Page | 670 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



“Yes,” said Harry. 



Hermione had not spoken for ten minutes. She was 
sitting with her forehead in her hands, staring at her 
knees. Harry thought she too looked as though she 
could have done with a Pensieve. 

“Rita Skeeter,” she muttered finally. 

“How can you be worrying about her now?” said Ron, 
in utter disbelief. 

“I’m not worrying about her,” Hermione said to her 
knees. “I’m just thinking ... remember what she said 
to me in the Three Broomsticks? ‘I know things about 
Ludo Bagman that would make your hair curl.’ This 
is what she meant, isn’t it? She reported his trial, she 
knew he’d passed information to the Death Eaters. 
And Winky too, remember ... ‘Ludo Bagman’s a bad 
wizard.’ Mr. Crouch would have been furious he got 
off, he would have talked about it at home.” 

“Yeah, but Bagman didn’t pass information on 
purpose, did he?” 

Hermione shrugged. 

“And Fudge reckons Madame Maxime attacked 
Crouch?” Ron said, turning back to Harry. 

“Yeah,” said Harry, “but he’s only saying that because 
Crouch disappeared near the Beauxbatons carriage.” 

“We never thought of her, did we?” said Ron slowly. 
“Mind you, she’s definitely got giant blood, and she 
doesn’t want to admit it — ” 

“Of course she doesn’t,” said Hermione sharply, 
looking up. “Look what happened to Hagrid when Rita 

Page | 671 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




found out about his mother. Look at Fudge, jumping 
to conclusions about her, just because she’s part 
giant. Who needs that sort of prejudice? I’d probably 
say I had big bones if I knew that’s what I’d get for 
telling the truth.” 

Hermione looked at her watch. “We haven’t done any 
practicing!” she said, looking shocked. “We were going 
to do the Impediment Curse! We’ll have to really get 
down to it tomorrow! Come on, Harry, you need to get 
some sleep.” 

Harry and Ron went slowly upstairs to their 
dormitory. As Harry pulled on his pajamas, he looked 
over at Neville’s bed. True to his word to Dumbledore, 
he had not told Ron and Hermione about Neville’s 
parents. As Harry took off his glasses and climbed 
into his four-poster, he imagined how it must feel to 
have parents still living but unable to recognize you. 
He often got sympathy from strangers for being an 
orphan, but as he listened to Neville’s snores, he 
thought that Neville deserved it more than he did. 
Lying in the darkness, Harry felt a rush of anger and 
hate toward the people who had tortured Mr. and 
Mrs. Longbottom. ... He remembered the jeers of the 
crowd as Crouch’s son and his companions had been 
dragged from the court by the dementors. ... He 
understood how they had felt. ... Then he 
remembered the milk-white face of the screaming boy 
and realized with a jolt that he had died a year later. 



It was Voldemort, Harry thought, staring up at the 
canopy of his bed in the darkness, it all came back to 
Voldemort. ... He was the one who had torn these 
families apart, who had ruined all these lives. ... 

Ron and Hermione were supposed to be studying for 
their exams, which would finish on the day of the 

Page | 672 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




third task, but they were putting most of their efforts 
into helping Harry prepare. 

“Don’t worry about it,” Hermione said shortly when 
Harry pointed this out to them and said he didn’t 
mind practicing on his own for a while, “at least we’ll 
get top marks in Defense Against the Dark Arts. We’d 
never have found out about all these hexes in class.” 

“Good training for when we’re all Aurors,” said Ron 
excitedly, attempting the Impediment Curse on a 
wasp that had buzzed into the room and making it 
stop dead in midair. 

The mood in the castle as they entered June became 
excited and tense again. Everyone was looking 
forward to the third task, which would take place a 
week before the end of term. Harry was practicing 
hexes at every available moment. He felt more 
confident about this task than either of the others. 
Difficult and dangerous though it would undoubtedly 
be, Moody was right: Harry had managed to find his 
way past monstrous creatures and enchanted 
barriers before now, and this time he had some 
notice, some chance to prepare himself for what lay 
ahead. 

Tired of walking in on Harry, Hermione, and Ron all 
over the school, Professor McGonagall had given them 
permission to use the empty Transfiguration 
classroom at lunchtimes. Harry had soon mastered 
the Impediment Curse, a spell to slow down and 
obstruct attackers; the Reductor Curse, which would 
enable him to blast solid objects out of his way; and 
the Four-Point Spell, a useful discovery of Hermione’s 
that would make his wand point due north, therefore 
enabling him to check whether he was going in the 
right direction within the maze. He was still having 
trouble with the Shield Charm, though. This was 
Page | 673 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




supposed to cast a temporary, invisible wall around 
himself that deflected minor curses; Hermione 
managed to shatter it with a well-placed Jelly-Legs 
Jinx, and Harry wobbled around the room for ten 
minutes afterward before she had looked up the 
counter-jinx. 

“You’re still doing really well, though,” Hermione said 
encouragingly, looking down her list and crossing off 
those spells they had already learned. “Some of these 
are bound to come in handy.” 

“Come and look at this,” said Ron, who was standing 
by the window. He was staring down onto the 
grounds. “What’s Malfoy doing?” 

Harry and Hermione went to see. Malfoy, Crabbe, and 
Goyle were standing in the shadow of a tree below. 
Crabbe and Goyle seemed to be keeping a lookout; 
both were smirking. Malfoy was holding his hand up 
to his mouth and speaking into it. 

“He looks like he’s using a walkie-talkie,” said Harry 
curiously. 

“He can’t be,” said Hermione, “I’ve told you, those 
sorts of things don’t work around Hogwarts. Come on, 
Harry,” she added briskly, turning away from the 
window and moving back into the middle of the room, 
“let’s try that Shield Charm again.” 



Sirius was sending daily owls now. Like Hermione, he 
seemed to want to concentrate on getting Harry 
through the last task before they concerned 
themselves with anything else. He reminded Harry in 
every letter that whatever might be going on outside 



Page | 674 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




the walls of Hogwarts was not Harry’s responsibility, 
nor was it within his power to influence it. 



If Voldemort is really getting stronger again, he wrote, 
my priority is to ensure your safety. He cannot hope to 
lay hands on you while you are under Dumbledore’s 
protection, but all the same, take no risks : Concentrate 
on getting through that maze safely, and then we can 
turn our attention to other matters. 

Harry’s nerves mounted as June the twenty-fourth 
drew closer, but they were not as bad as those he had 
felt before the first and second tasks. For one thing, 
he was confident that, this time, he had done 
everything in his power to prepare for the task. For 
another, this was the final hurdle, and however well 
or badly he did, the tournament would at last be over, 
which would be an enormous relief. 

Breakfast was a very noisy affair at the Gryffindor 
table on the morning of the third task. The post owls 
appeared, bringing Harry a good-luck card from 
Sirius. It was only a piece of parchment, folded over 
and bearing a muddy paw print on its front, but 
Harry appreciated it all the same. A screech owl 
arrived for Hermione, carrying her morning copy of 
the Daily Prophet as usual. She unfolded the paper, 
glanced at the front page, and spat out a mouthful of 
pumpkin juice all over it. 

“What?” said Harry and Ron together, staring at her. 

“Nothing,” said Hermione quickly, trying to shove the 
paper out of sight, but Ron grabbed it. He stared at 
the headline and said, “No way. Not today. That old 
cow.” 

“What?” said Harry. “Rita Skeeter again?” 

Page | 675 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Ron, and just like Hermione, he attempted 
to push the paper out of sight. 



“It’s about me, isn’t it?” said Harry. 

“No,” said Ron, in an entirely unconvincing tone. 

But before Harry could demand to see the paper, 
Draco Malfoy shouted across the Great Hall from the 
Slytherin table. 

“Hey, Potter! Potteri How’s your head? You feeling all 
right? Sure you’re not going to go berserk on us?” 

Malfoy was holding a copy of the Daily Prophet too. 
Slytherins up and down the table were sniggering, 
twisting in their seats to see Harry’s reaction. 

“Let me see it,” Harry said to Ron. “Give it here.” 

Very reluctantly, Ron handed over the newspaper. 
Harry turned it over and found himself staring at his 
own picture, beneath the banner headline: 

HARRY POTTER 

“DISTURBED AND DANGEROUS” 

The boy who defeated He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is 
unstable and possibly dangerous, writes Rita Skeeter, 
Special Correspondent. Alarming evidence has 
recently come to light about Harry Potter’s strange 
behavior, which casts doubts upon his suitability to 
compete in a demanding competition like the Triwizard 
Tournament, or even to attend Hogwarts School. 

Potter, the Daily Prophet can exclusively reveal, 
regularly collapses at school, and is often heard to 
complain of pain in the scar on his forehead (relic of the 

Page | 676 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




curse with which You-Know-Who attempted to kill him). 
On Monday last, midway through a Divination lesson, 
your Daily Prophet reporter witnessed Potter storming 
from the class, claiming that his scar was hurting too 
badly to continue studying. 

It is possible, say top experts at St. Mungo’s Hospital 
for Magical Maladies and Injuries, that Potter’s brain 
was affected by the attack inflicted upon him by You- 
Know-Who, and that his insistence that the scar is 
still hurting is an expression of his deep-seated 
confusion. 

“He might even be pretending,” said one specialist. 
“This could be a plea for attention.” 

The Daily Prophet, however, has unearthed worrying 
facts about Harry Potter thatAlbus Dumbledore, 
Headmaster of Hogwarts, has carefully concealed from 
the wizarding public. 

“Potter can speak Parseltongue, ” reveals Draco Malfoy, 
a Hogwarts fourth year. “There were a lot of attacks 
on students a couple of years ago, and most people 
thought Potter was behind them after they saw him 
lose his temper at a dueling club and set a snake on 
another boy. It was all hushed up, though. But he’s 
made friends with werewolves and giants too. We 
think he’d do anything for a bit of power.” 

Parseltongue, the ability to converse with snakes, has 
long been considered a Dark Art. Indeed, the most 
famous Parselmouth of our times is none other than 
You-Know-Who himself. A member of the Dark Force 
Defense League, who wished to remain unnamed, 
stated that he would regard any wizard who could 
speak Parseltongue “as worthy of investigation. 
Personally, I would be highly suspicious of anybody 
who could converse with snakes, as serpents are 
Page | 677 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




often used in the worst kinds of Dark Magic, and are 
historically associated with evildoers.” Similarly, 
“anyone who seeks out the company of such vicious 
creatures as werewolves and giants would appear to 
have a fondness for violence.” 

Albus Dumbledore should surely consider whether a 
boy such as this should be allowed to compete in the 
Triwizard Tournament. Some fear that Potter might 
resort to the Dark Arts in his desperation to win the 
tournament, the third task of which takes place this 
evening. 

“Gone off me a bit, hasn’t she?” said Harry lightly, 
folding up the paper. 

Over at the Slytherin table, Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle 
were laughing at him, tapping their heads with their 
fingers, pulling grotesquely mad faces, and waggling 
their tongues like snakes. 

“How did she know your scar hurt in Divination?” 

Ron said. “There’s no way she was there, there’s no 
way she could’ve heard — ” 

“The window was open,” said Harry. “I opened it to 
breathe.” 

“You were at the top of North Tower!” Hermione said. 
“Your voice couldn’t have carried all the way down to 
the grounds!” 

“Well, you’re the one who’s supposed to be 
researching magical methods of bugging!” said Harry. 
“You tell me how she did it!” 

“I’ve been trying!” said Hermione. “But I ... but ...” 



Page | 678 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




An odd, dreamy expression suddenly came over 
Hermione ’s face. She slowly raised a hand and ran 
her fingers through her hair. 

“Are you all right?” said Ron, frowning at her. 

“Yes,” said Hermione breathlessly. She ran her fingers 
through her hair again, and then held her hand up to 
her mouth, as though speaking into an invisible 
walkie-talkie. Harry and Ron stared at each other. 

“I’ve had an idea,” Hermione said, gazing into space. 

“I think I know . . . because then no one would be able 
to see ... even Moody ... and she’d have been able to 
get onto the window ledge ... but she’s not allowed ... 
she’s definitely not allowed ... I think we’ve got her! 
Just give me two seconds in the library — just to 
make sure!” 

With that, Hermione seized her school bag and 
dashed out of the Great Hall. 

“Oi!” Ron called after her. “We’ve got our History of 
Magic exam in ten minutes! Blimey,” he said, turning 
back to Harry, “she must really hate that Skeeter 
woman to risk missing the start of an exam. What’re 
you going to do in Binns’s class — read again?” 

Exempt from the end-of-term tests as a Triwizard 
champion, Harry had been sitting in the back of every 
exam class so far, looking up fresh hexes for the third 
task. 

“S’pose so,” Harry said to Ron; but just then, 

Professor McGonagall came walking alongside the 
Gryffindor table toward him. 

“Potter, the champions are congregating in the 
chamber off the Hall after breakfast,” she said. 

Page | 679 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“But the task’s not till tonight!” said Harry, 
accidentally spilling scrambled eggs down his front, 
afraid he had mistaken the time. 

“I’m aware of that, Potter,” she said. “The champions’ 
families are invited to watch the final task, you know. 
This is simply a chance for you to greet them.” 

She moved away. Harry gaped after her. 

“She doesn’t expect the Dursleys to turn up, does 
she?” he asked Ron blankly. 

“Dunno,” said Ron. “Harry, I’d better hurry, I’m going 
to be late for Binns. See you later.” 

Harry finished his breakfast in the emptying Great 
Hall. He saw Fleur Delacour get up from the 
Ravenclaw table and join Cedric as he crossed to the 
side chamber and entered. Krum slouched off to join 
them shortly afterward. Harry stayed where he was. 

He really didn’t want to go into the chamber. He had 
no family — no family who would turn up to see him 
risk his life, anyway. But just as he was getting up, 
thinking that he might as well go up to the library 
and do a spot more hex research, the door of the side 
chamber opened, and Cedric stuck his head out. 

“Harry, come on, they’re waiting for you!” 

Utterly perplexed, Harry got up. The Dursleys 
couldn’t possibly be here, could they? He walked 
across the Hall and opened the door into the 
chamber. 

Cedric and his parents were just inside the door. 
Viktor Krum was over in a corner, conversing with his 
dark-haired mother and father in rapid Bulgarian. He 
had inherited his father’s hooked nose. On the other 

Page | 680 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




side of the room, Fleur was jabbering away in French 
to her mother. Fleur’s little sister, Gabrielle, was 
holding her mother’s hand. She waved at Harry, who 
waved back, grinning. Then he saw Mrs. Weasley and 
Bill standing in front of the fireplace, beaming at him. 

“Surprise!” Mrs. Weasley said excitedly as he smiled 
broadly and walked over to them. “Thought we’d come 
and watch you, Harry!” She bent down and kissed 
him on the cheek. 

“You all right?” said Bill, grinning at Harry and 
shaking his hand. “Charlie wanted to come, but he 
couldn’t get time off. He said you were incredible 
against the Horntail.” 

Fleur Delacour, Harry noticed, was eyeing Bill with 
great interest over her mother’s shoulder. Harry could 
tell she had no objection whatsoever to long hair or 
earrings with fangs on them. 

“This is really nice of you,” Harry muttered to Mrs. 
Weasley. “I thought for a moment — the Dursleys — ” 

“Hmm,” said Mrs. Weasley, pursing her lips. She had 
always refrained from criticizing the Dursleys in front 
of Harry, but her eyes flashed every time they were 
mentioned. 

“It’s great being back here,” said Bill, looking around 
the chamber (Violet, the Fat Lady’s friend, winked at 
him from her frame). “Haven’t seen this place for five 
years. Is that picture of the mad knight still around? 
Sir Cadogan?” 

“Oh yeah,” said Harry, who had met Sir Cadogan the 
previous year. 

“And the Fat Lady?” said Bill. 

Page | 681 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“She was here in my time,” said Mrs. Weasley. “She 
gave me such a telling off one night when I got back 
to the dormitory at four in the morning — ” 

“What were you doing out of your dormitory at four in 
the morning?” said Bill, surveying his mother with 
amazement. 

Mrs. Weasley grinned, her eyes twinkling. 

“Your father and I had been for a nighttime stroll,” 
she said. “He got caught by Apollyon Pringle — he 
was the caretaker in those days — your father’s still 
got the marks.” 

“Fancy giving us a tour, Harry?” said Bill. 

“Yeah, okay,” said Harry, and they made their way 
back toward the door into the Great Hall. As they 
passed Amos Diggory, he looked around. 

“There you are, are you?” he said, looking Harry up 
and down. “Bet you’re not feeling quite as full of 
yourself now Cedric’s caught you up on points, are 
you?” 

“What?” said Harry. 

“Ignore him,” said Cedric in a low voice to Harry, 
frowning after his father. “He’s been angry ever since 
Rita Skeeter’s article about the Triwizard Tournament 
— you know, when she made out you were the only 
Hogwarts champion.” 

“Didn’t bother to correct her, though, did he?” said 
Amos Diggory, loudly enough for Harry to hear as he 
started to walk out of the door with Mrs. Weasley and 
Bill. “Still ... you’ll show him, Ced. Beaten him once 
before, haven’t you?” 

Page | 682 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Rita Skeeter goes out of her way to cause trouble, 
Amos!” Mrs. Weasley said angrily. “I would have 
thought you’d know that, working at the Ministry!” 

Mr. Diggory looked as though he was going to say 
something angry, but his wife laid a hand on his arm, 
and he merely shrugged and turned away. 

Harry had a very enjoyable morning walking over the 
sunny grounds with Bill and Mrs. Weasley, showing 
them the Beauxbatons carriage and the Durmstrang 
ship. Mrs. Weasley was intrigued by the Whomping 
Willow, which had been planted after she had left 
school, and reminisced at length about the 
gamekeeper before Hagrid, a man called Ogg. 

“How’s Percy?” Harry asked as they walked around 
the greenhouses. 

“Not good,” said Bill. 

“He’s very upset,” said Mrs. Weasley, lowering her 
voice and glancing around. “The Ministry wants to 
keep Mr. Crouch’s disappearance quiet, but Percy’s 
been hauled in for questioning about the instructions 
Mr. Crouch has been sending in. They seem to think 
there’s a chance they weren’t genuinely written by 
him. Percy’s been under a lot of strain. They’re not 
letting him fill in for Mr. Crouch as the fifth judge 
tonight. Cornelius Fudge is going to be doing it.” 

They returned to the castle for lunch. 

“Mum — Bill!” said Ron, looking stunned, as he 
joined the Gryffindor table. “What ’re you doing here?” 

“Come to watch Harry in the last task!” said Mrs. 
Weasley brightly. “I must say, it makes a lovely 
change, not having to cook. How was your exam?” 

Page | 683 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Oh ... okay,” said Ron. “Couldn’t remember all the 
goblin rebels’ names, so I invented a few. It’s all 
right,” he said, helping himself to a Cornish pasty, 
while Mrs. Weasley looked stern, “they’re all called 
stuff like Bodrod the Bearded and Urg the Unclean; it 
wasn’t hard.” 

Fred, George, and Ginny came to sit next to them too, 
and Harry was having such a good time he felt almost 
as though he were back at the Burrow; he had 
forgotten to worry about that evening’s task, and not 
until Hermione turned up, halfway through lunch, 
did he remember that she had had a brainwave about 
Rita Skeeter. 

“Are you going to tell us — ?” 

Hermione shook her head warningly and glanced at 
Mrs. Weasley. 

“Hello, Hermione,” said Mrs. Weasley, much more 
stiffly than usual. 

“Hello,” said Hermione, her smile faltering at the cold 
expression on Mrs. Weasley’s face. 

Harry looked between them, then said, “Mrs. Weasley, 
you didn’t believe that rubbish Rita Skeeter wrote in 
Witch Weekly, did you? Because Hermione ’s not my 
girlfriend.” 

“Oh!” said Mrs. Weasley. “No — of course I didn’t!” 

But she became considerably warmer toward 
Hermione after that. 

Harry, Bill, and Mrs. Weasley whiled away the 
afternoon with a long walk around the castle, and 
then returned to the Great Hall for the evening feast. 

Page | 684 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Ludo Bagman and Cornelius Fudge had joined the 
staff table now. Bagman looked quite cheerful, but 
Cornelius Fudge, who was sitting next to Madame 
Maxime, looked stern and was not talking. Madame 
Maxime was concentrating on her plate, and Harry 
thought her eyes looked red. Hagrid kept glancing 
along the table at her. 

There were more courses than usual, but Harry, who 
was starting to feel really nervous now, didn’t eat 
much. As the enchanted ceiling overhead began to 
fade from blue to a dusky purple, Dumbledore rose to 
his feet at the staff table, and silence fell. 

“Ladies and gentlemen, in five minutes’ time, I will be 
asking you to make your way down to the Quidditch 
field for the third and final task of the Triwizard 
Tournament. Will the champions please follow Mr. 
Bagman down to the stadium now.” 

Harry got up. The Gryffindors all along the table were 
applauding him; the Weasleys and Hermione all 
wished him good luck, and he headed off out of the 
Great Hall with Cedric, Fleur, and Viktor. 

“Feeling all right, Harry?” Bagman asked as they went 
down the stone steps onto the grounds. “Confident?” 

“I’m okay,” said Harry. It was sort of true; he was 
nervous, but he kept running over all the hexes and 
spells he had been practicing in his mind as they 
walked, and the knowledge that he could remember 
them all made him feel better. 

They walked onto the Quidditch field, which was now 
completely unrecognizable. A twenty-foot-high hedge 
ran all the way around the edge of it. There was a gap 
right in front of them: the entrance to the vast maze. 
The passage beyond it looked dark and creepy. 

Page | 685 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Five minutes later, the stands had begun to fill; the 
air was full of excited voices and the rumbling of feet 
as the hundreds of students filed into their seats. The 
sky was a deep, clear blue now, and the first stars 
were starting to appear. Hagrid, Professor Moody, 
Professor McGonagall, and Professor Flitwick came 
walking into the stadium and approached Bagman 
and the champions. They were wearing large, red, 
luminous stars on their hats, all except Hagrid, who 
had his on the back of his moleskin vest. 

“We are going to be patrolling the outside of the 
maze,” said Professor McGonagall to the champions. 
“If you get into difficulty, and wish to be rescued, 
send red sparks into the air, and one of us will come 
and get you, do you understand?” 

The champions nodded. 

“Off you go, then!” said Bagman brightly to the four 
patrollers. 

“Good luck, Harry,” Hagrid whispered, and the four of 
them walked away in different directions, to station 
themselves around the maze. Bagman now pointed 
his wand at his throat, muttered, “ Sonorus,” and his 
magically magnified voice echoed into the stands. 

“Ladies and gentlemen, the third and final task of the 
Triwizard Tournament is about to begin! Let me 
remind you how the points currently stand! Tied in 
first place, with eighty-five points each — Mr. Cedric 
Diggory and Mr. Harry Potter, both of Hogwarts 
School!” The cheers and applause sent birds from the 
Forbidden Forest fluttering into the darkening sky. 

“In second place, with eighty points — Mr. Viktor 
Krum, of Durmstrang Institute!” More applause. “And 
in third place — Miss Fleur Delacour, of Beauxbatons 
Academy!” 

Page | 686 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry could just make out Mrs. Weasley, Bill, Ron, 
and Hermione applauding Fleur politely, halfway up 
the stands. He waved up at them, and they waved 
back, beaming at him. 

“So ... on my whistle, Harry and Cedric!” said 
Bagman. “Three — two — one — ” 

He gave a short blast on his whistle, and Harry and 
Cedric hurried forward into the maze. 

The towering hedges cast black shadows across the 
path, and, whether because they were so tall and 
thick or because they had been enchanted, the sound 
of the surrounding crowd was silenced the moment 
they entered the maze. Harry felt almost as though he 
were underwater again. He pulled out his wand, 
muttered, “Lumos,” and heard Cedric do the same 
just behind him. 

After about fifty yards, they reached a fork. They 
looked at each other. 

“See you,” Harry said, and he took the left one, while 
Cedric took the right. 

Harry heard Bagman’s whistle for the second time. 
Krum had entered the maze. Harry sped up. His 
chosen path seemed completely deserted. He turned 
right, and hurried on, holding his wand high over his 
head, trying to see as far ahead as possible. Still, 
there was nothing in sight. 

Bagman’s whistle blew in the distance for the third 
time. All of the champions were now inside. 

Harry kept looking behind him. The old feeling that 
he was being watched was upon him. The maze was 



Page | 687 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




growing darker with every passing minute as the sky 
overhead deepened to navy. He reached a second fork. 

“ Point Me,” he whispered to his wand, holding it flat in 
his palm. 

The wand spun around once and pointed toward his 
right, into solid hedge. That way was north, and he 
knew that he needed to go northwest for the center of 
the maze. The best he could do was to take the left 
fork and go right again as soon as possible. 

The path ahead was empty too, and when Harry 
reached a right turn and took it, he again found his 
way unblocked. Harry didn’t know why, but the lack 
of obstacles was unnerving him. Surely he should 
have met something by now? It felt as though the 
maze were luring him into a false sense of security. 
Then he heard movement right behind him. He held 
out his wand, ready to attack, but its beam fell only 
upon Cedric, who had just hurried out of a path on 
the right-hand side. Cedric looked severely shaken. 
The sleeve of his robe was smoking. 

“Hagrid’s Blast-Ended Skrewts!” he hissed. “They’re 
enormous — I only just got away!” 

He shook his head and dived out of sight, along 
another path. Keen to put plenty of distance between 
himself and the skrewts, Harry hurried off again. 
Then, as he turned a corner, he saw ... a dementor 
gliding toward him. Twelve feet tall, its face hidden by 
its hood, its rotting, scabbed hands outstretched, it 
advanced, sensing its way blindly toward him. Harry 
could hear its rattling breath; he felt clammy coldness 
stealing over him, but knew what he had to do. ... 

He summoned the happiest thought he could, 
concentrated with all his might on the thought of 

Page | 688 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




getting out of the maze and celebrating with Ron and 
Hermione, raised his wand, and cried, “Expecto 
Patronum).” 

A silver stag erupted from the end of Harry’s wand 
and galloped toward the dementor, which fell back 
and tripped over the hem of its robes. ... Harry had 
never seen a dementor stumble. 

“Hang on!” he shouted, advancing in the wake of his 
silver Patronus. “You’re a boggart! Riddikulusl” 

There was a loud crack, and the shape-shifter 
exploded in a wisp of smoke. The silver stag faded 
from sight. Harry wished it could have stayed, he 
could have used some company . . . but he moved on, 
quickly and quietly as possible, listening hard, his 
wand held high once more. 

Left . . . right . . . left again . . . Twice he found himself 
facing dead ends. He did the Four-Point Spell again 
and found that he was going too far east. He turned 
back, took a right turn, and saw an odd golden mist 
floating ahead of him. 

Harry approached it cautiously, pointing the wand’s 
beam at it. This looked like some kind of 
enchantment. He wondered whether he might be able 
to blast it out of the way. 

“Reductol” he said. 

The spell shot straight through the mist, leaving it 
intact. He supposed he should have known better; the 
Reductor Curse was for solid objects. What would 
happen if he walked through the mist? Was it worth 
chancing it, or should he double back? 



Page | 689 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




He was still hesitating when a scream shattered the 
silence. 



“Fleur?” Harry yelled. 

There was silence. He stared all around him. What 
had happened to her? Her scream seemed to have 
come from somewhere ahead. He took a deep breath 
and ran through the enchanted mist. 

The world turned upside down. Harry was hanging 
from the ground, with his hair on end, his glasses 
dangling off his nose, threatening to fall into the 
bottomless sky. He clutched them to the end of his 
nose and hung there, terrified. It felt as though his 
feet were glued to the grass, which had now become 
the ceiling. Below him the dark, star-spangled 
heavens stretched endlessly. He felt as though if he 
tried to move one of his feet, he would fall away from 
the earth completely. 

Think , he told himself, as all the blood rushed to his 
head, think ... 

But not one of the spells he had practiced had been 
designed to combat a sudden reversal of ground and 
sky. Did he dare move his foot? He could hear the 
blood pounding in his ears. He had two choices — try 
and move, or send up red sparks, and get rescued 
and disqualified from the task. 

He shut his eyes, so he wouldn’t be able to see the 
view of endless space below him, and pulled his right 
foot as hard as he could away from the grassy ceiling. 

Immediately, the world righted itself. Harry fell 
forward onto his knees onto the wonderfully solid 
ground. He felt temporarily limp with shock. He took 
a deep, steadying breath, then got up again and 

Page | 690 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




hurried forward, looking back over his shoulder as he 
ran away from the golden mist, which twinkled 
innocently at him in the moonlight. 

He paused at a junction of two paths and looked 
around for some sign of Fleur. He was sure it had 
been she who had screamed. What had she met? Was 
she all right? There was no sign of red sparks — did 
that mean she had got herself out of trouble, or was 
she in such trouble that she couldn’t reach her 
wand? Harry took the right fork with a feeling of 
increasing unease ... but at the same time, he 
couldn’t help thinking, One champion down ... 

The cup was somewhere close by, and it sounded as 
though Fleur was no longer in the running. He’d got 
this far, hadn’t he? What if he actually managed to 
win? Fleetingly, and for the first time since he’d found 
himself champion, he saw again that image of 
himself, raising the Triwizard Cup in front of the rest 
of the school. ... 

He met nothing for ten minutes, but kept running 
into dead ends. Twice he took the same wrong 
turning. Finally, he found a new route and started to 
jog along it, his wandlight waving, making his shadow 
flicker and distort on the hedge walls. Then he 
rounded another corner and found himself facing a 
Blast-Ended Skrewt. 

Cedric was right — it was enormous. Ten feet long, it 
looked more like a giant scorpion than anything. Its 
long sting was curled over its back. Its thick armor 
glinted in the light from Harry’s wand, which he 
pointed at it. 

“Stupefy'.” 



Page | 691 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




The spell hit the skrewt’s armor and rebounded; 

Harry ducked just in time, but could smell burning 
hair; it had singed the top of his head. The skrewt 
issued a blast of fire from its end and flew forward 
toward him. 

“ Impedimental ” Harry yelled. The spell hit the skrewt’s 
armor again and ricocheted off; Harry staggered back 
a few paces and fell over. a IMPEDIMENT A\” 

The skrewt was inches from him when it froze — he 
had managed to hit it on its fleshy, shell-less 
underside. Panting, Harry pushed himself away from 
it and ran, hard, in the opposite direction — the 
Impediment Curse was not permanent; the skrewt 
would be regaining the use of its legs at any moment. 

He took a left path and hit a dead end, a right, and 
hit another; forcing himself to stop, heart hammering, 
he performed the Four-Point Spell again, 
backtracked, and chose a path that would take him 
northwest. 

He had been hurrying along the new path for a few 
minutes, when he heard something in the path 
running parallel to his own that made him stop dead. 

“What are you doing?” yelled Cedric’s voice. “What the 
hell d’you think you’re doing?” 

And then Harry heard Krum’s voice. 

“ Crucio \ ” 

The air was suddenly full of Cedric’s yells. Horrified, 
Harry began sprinting up his path, trying to find a 
way into Cedric’s. When none appeared, he tried the 
Reductor Curse again. It wasn’t very effective, but it 
burned a small hole in the hedge through which 
Page | 692 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry forced his leg, kicking at the thick brambles 
and branches until they broke and made an opening; 
he struggled through it, tearing his robes, and looking 
to his right, saw Cedric jerking and twitching on the 
ground, Krum standing over him. 

Harry pulled himself up and pointed his wand at 
Krum just as Krum looked up. Krum turned and 
began to run. 

“ Stupefy]” Harry yelled. 

The spell hit Krum in the back; he stopped dead in 
his tracks, fell forward, and lay motionless, facedown 
in the grass. Harry dashed over to Cedric, who had 
stopped twitching and was lying there panting, his 
hands over his face. 

“Are you all right?” Harry said roughly, grabbing 
Cedric’s arm. 

“Yeah,” panted Cedric. “Yeah ... I don’t believe it ... he 
crept up behind me. ... I heard him, I turned around, 
and he had his wand on me. ...” 

Cedric got up. He was still shaking. He and Harry 
looked down at Krum. 

“I can’t believe this ... I thought he was all right,” 
Harry said, staring at Krum. 

“So did I,” said Cedric. 

“Did you hear Fleur scream earlier?” said Harry. 

“Yeah,” said Cedric. “You don’t think Krum got her 
too?” 

“I don’t know,” said Harry slowly. 

Page | 693 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Should we leave him here?” Cedric muttered. 



“No,” said Harry. “I reckon we should send up red 
sparks. Someone’ll come and collect him ... otherwise 
he’ll probably be eaten by a skrewt.” 

“He’d deserve it,” Cedric muttered, but all the same, 
he raised his wand and shot a shower of red sparks 
into the air, which hovered high above Krum, marking 
the spot where he lay. 

Harry and Cedric stood there in the darkness for a 
moment, looking around them. Then Cedric said, 

“Well ... I s’pose we’d better go on . ...” 

“What?” said Harry. “Oh ... yeah ... right ...” 

It was an odd moment. He and Cedric had been 
briefly united against Krum — now the fact that they 
were opponents came back to Harry. The two of them 
proceeded up the dark path without speaking, then 
Harry turned left, and Cedric right. Cedric’s footsteps 
soon died away. 

Harry moved on, continuing to use the Four-Point 
Spell, making sure he was moving in the right 
direction. It was between him and Cedric now. His 
desire to reach the cup first was now burning 
stronger than ever, but he could hardly believe what 
he’d just seen Krum do. The use of an Unforgivable 
Curse on a fellow human being meant a life term in 
Azkaban, that was what Moody had told them. Krum 
surely couldn’t have wanted the Triwizard Cup that 
badly. ... Harry sped up. 

Every so often he hit more dead ends, but the 
increasing darkness made him feel sure he was 
getting near the heart of the maze. Then, as he strode 
down a long, straight path, he saw movement once 

Page | 694 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




again, and his beam of wandlight hit an extraordinary 
creature, one which he had only seen in picture form, 
in his Monster Book of Monsters. 

It was a sphinx. It had the body of an over-large lion: 
great clawed paws and a long yellowish tail ending in 
a brown tuft. Its head, however, was that of a woman. 
She turned her long, almond-shaped eyes upon Harry 
as he approached. He raised his wand, hesitating. 

She was not crouching as if to spring, but pacing 
from side to side of the path, blocking his progress. 
Then she spoke, in a deep, hoarse voice. 

“You are very near your goal. The quickest way is past 
me.” 

“So ... so will you move, please?” said Harry, knowing 
what the answer was going to be. 

“No,” she said, continuing to pace. “Not unless you 
can answer my riddle. Answer on your first guess — I 
let you pass. Answer wrongly — I attack. Remain 
silent — I will let you walk away from me unscathed.” 

Harry’s stomach slipped several notches. It was 
Hermione who was good at this sort of thing, not him. 
He weighed his chances. If the riddle was too hard, he 
could keep silent, get away from the sphinx 
unharmed, and try and find an alternative route to 
the center. 

“Okay,” he said. “Can I hear the riddle?” 

The sphinx sat down upon her hind legs, in the very 
middle of the path, and recited: 

“First think of the person who lives in disguise, 



Who deals in secrets and tells naught but lies. 

Page | 695 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Next, tell me what’s always the last thing to mend, 

The middle of middle and end of the end? 

And finally give me the sound often heard 
During the search for a hard-to-find word. 

Now string them together, and answer me this, 

Which creature would you be unwilling to kiss?” 

Harry gaped at her. 

“Could I have it again . . . more slowly?” he asked 
tentatively. 

She blinked at him, smiled, and repeated the poem. 

“All the clues add up to a creature I wouldn’t want to 
kiss?” Harry asked. 

She merely smiled her mysterious smile. Harry took 
that for a “yes.” Harry cast his mind around. There 
were plenty of animals he wouldn’t want to kiss; his 
immediate thought was a Blast-Ended Skrewt, but 
something told him that wasn’t the answer. He’d have 
to try and work out the clues. ... 

“A person in disguise,” Harry muttered, staring at her, 
“who lies ... er ... that’d be a — an imposter. No, 
that’s not my guess! A — a spy? I’ll come back to that 
. . . could you give me the next clue again, please?” 

She repeated the next lines of the poem. 

“ The last thing to mend,’ ” Harry repeated. “Er ... no 
idea ... ‘middle of middle’ ... could I have the last bit 
again?” 

Page | 696 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




She gave him the last four lines. 

“ The sound often heard during the search for a hard- 
to-find word,’ ” said Harry. “Er ... that’d be ... er ... 
hang on — ‘er’! Er’s a sound!” 

The sphinx smiled at him. 

“Spy ... er ... spy ... er ...” said Harry, pacing up and 
down. “A creature I wouldn’t want to kiss ... a spiderl” 

The sphinx smiled more broadly. She got up, 
stretched her front legs, and then moved aside for 
him to pass. 

“Thanks!” said Harry, and, amazed at his own 
brilliance, he dashed forward. 

He had to be close now, he had to be. ... His wand 
was telling him he was bang on course; as long as he 
didn’t meet anything too horrible, he might have a 
chance. ... 

Harry broke into a run. He had a choice of paths up 
ahead. “Point Mel” he whispered again to his wand, 
and it spun around and pointed him to the right- 
hand one. He dashed up this one and saw light 
ahead. 

The Triwizard Cup was gleaming on a plinth a 
hundred yards away. Suddenly a dark figure hurtled 
out onto the path in front of him. 

Cedric was going to get there first. Cedric was 
sprinting as fast as he could toward the cup, and 
Harry knew he would never catch up, Cedric was 
much taller, had much longer legs — 



Page | 697 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Then Harry saw something immense over a hedge to 
his left, moving quickly along a path that intersected 
with his own; it was moving so fast Cedric was about 
to run into it, and Cedric, his eyes on the cup, had 
not seen it — 

“Cedric!” Harry bellowed. “On your left!” 

Cedric looked around just in time to hurl himself past 
the thing and avoid colliding with it, but in his haste, 
he tripped. Harry saw Cedric’s wand fly out of his 
hand as a gigantic spider stepped into the path and 
began to bear down upon Cedric. 

“Stupefy'.” Harry yelled; the spell hit the spider’s 
gigantic, hairy black body, but for all the good it did, 
he might as well have thrown a stone at it; the spider 
jerked, scuttled around, and ran at Harry instead. 

“ Stupefy ! Impedimenta ! Stupefy !” 

But it was no use — the spider was either so large, or 
so magical, that the spells were doing no more than 
aggravating it. Harry had one horrifying glimpse of 
eight shining black eyes and razor-sharp pincers 
before it was upon him. 

He was lifted into the air in its front legs; struggling 
madly, he tried to kick it; his leg connected with the 
pincers and next moment he was in excruciating 
pain. He could hear Cedric yelling “Stupefy'.” too, but 
his spell had no more effect than Harry’s — Harry 
raised his wand as the spider opened its pincers once 
more and shouted “ Expelliarmus'.” 

It worked — the Disarming Spell made the spider 
drop him, but that meant that Harry fell twelve feet 
onto his already injured leg, which crumpled beneath 
him. Without pausing to think, he aimed high at the 

Page | 698 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




spider’s underbelly, as he had done with the skrewt, 
and shouted “Stupefyl” just as Cedric yelled the same 
thing. 

The two spells combined did what one alone had not: 
The spider keeled over sideways, flattening a nearby 
hedge, and strewing the path with a tangle of hairy 
legs. 

“Harry!” he heard Cedric shouting. “You all right? Did 
it fall on you?” 

“No,” Harry called back, panting. He looked down at 
his leg. It was bleeding freely. He could see some sort 
of thick, gluey secretion from the spider’s pincers on 
his torn robes. He tried to get up, but his leg was 
shaking badly and did not want to support his weight. 
He leaned against the hedge, gasping for breath, and 
looked around. 

Cedric was standing feet from the Triwizard Cup, 
which was gleaming behind him. 

“Take it, then,” Harry panted to Cedric. “Go on, take 
it. You’re there.” 

But Cedric didn’t move. He merely stood there, 
looking at Harry. Then he turned to stare at the cup. 
Harry saw the longing expression on his face in its 
golden light. Cedric looked around at Harry again, 
who was now holding onto the hedge to support 
himself. Cedric took a deep breath. 

“You take it. You should win. That’s twice you’ve 
saved my neck in here.” 

“That’s not how it’s supposed to work,” Harry said. He 
felt angry; his leg was very painful, he was aching all 
over from trying to throw off the spider, and after all 

Page | 699 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




his efforts, Cedric had beaten him to it, just as he’d 
beaten Harry to ask Cho to the ball. “The one who 
reaches the cup first gets the points. That’s you. I’m 
telling you, I’m not going to win any races on this leg.” 

Cedric took a few paces nearer to the Stunned spider, 
away from the cup, shaking his head. 

“No,” he said. 

“Stop being noble,” said Harry irritably. “Just take it, 
then we can get out of here.” 

Cedric watched Harry steadying himself, holding tight 
to the hedge. 

“You told me about the dragons,” Cedric said. “I 
would’ve gone down in the first task if you hadn’t told 
me what was coming.” 

“I had help on that too,” Harry snapped, trying to mop 
up his bloody leg with his robes. “You helped me with 
the egg — we’re square.” 

“I had help on the egg in the first place,” said Cedric. 

“We’re still square,” said Harry, testing his leg 
gingerly; it shook violently as he put weight on it; he 
had sprained his ankle when the spider had dropped 
him. 

“You should’ve got more points on the second task,” 
said Cedric mulishly. “You stayed behind to get all the 
hostages. I should’ve done that.” 

“I was the only one who was thick enough to take that 
song seriously!” said Harry bitterly. “Just take the 
cup!” 



Page | 700 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“No,” said Cedric. 



He stepped over the spider’s tangled legs to join 
Harry, who stared at him. Cedric was serious. He was 
walking away from the sort of glory Hufflepuff House 
hadn’t had in centuries. 

“Go on,” Cedric said. He looked as though this was 
costing him every ounce of resolution he had, but his 
face was set, his arms were folded, he seemed 
decided. 

Harry looked from Cedric to the cup. For one shining 
moment, he saw himself emerging from the maze, 
holding it. He saw himself holding the Triwizard Cup 
aloft, heard the roar of the crowd, saw Cho’s face 
shining with admiration, more clearly than he had 
ever seen it before ... and then the picture faded, and 
he found himself staring at Cedric’s shadowy, 
stubborn face. 

“Both of us,” Harry said. 

“What?” 

“Well take it at the same time. It’s still a Hogwarts 
victory. We’ll tie for it.” 

Cedric stared at Harry. He unfolded his arms. 

“You — you sure?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry. “Yeah ... we’ve helped each other 
out, haven’t we? We both got here. Let’s just take it 
together.” 

For a moment, Cedric looked as though he couldn’t 
believe his ears; then his face split in a grin. 

Page | 701 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




“You’re on,” he said. “Come here.” 

He grabbed Harry’s arm below the shoulder and 
helped Harry limp toward the plinth where the cup 
stood. When they had reached it, they both held a 
hand out over one of the cup’s gleaming handles. 

“On three, right?” said Harry. “One — two — three — ” 

He and Cedric both grasped a handle. 

Instantly, Harry felt a jerk somewhere behind his 
navel. His feet had left the ground. He could not 
unclench the hand holding the Triwizard Cup; it was 
pulling him onward in a howl of wind and swirling 
color, Cedric at his side. 



Page | 702 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






FLESH, BLOOD, AND BONE 

Harry felt his feet slam into the ground; his injured 
leg gave way, and he fell forward; his hand let go of 
the Triwizard Cup at last. He raised his head. 

“Where are we?” he said. 

Cedric shook his head. He got up, pulled Harry to his 
feet, and they looked around. 

They had left the Hogwarts grounds completely; they 
had obviously traveled miles — perhaps hundreds of 
miles — for even the mountains surrounding the 
castle were gone. They were standing instead in a 
dark and overgrown graveyard; the black outline of a 
small church was visible beyond a large yew tree to 
their right. A hill rose above them to their left. Harry 
could just make out the outline of a fine old house on 
the hillside. 

Cedric looked down at the Triwizard Cup and then up 
at Harry. 



Page | 703 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



“Did anyone tell you the cup was a Portkey?” he 
asked. 

“Nope,” said Harry. He was looking around the 
graveyard. It was completely silent and slightly eerie. 
“Is this supposed to be part of the task?” 

“I dunno,” said Cedric. He sounded slightly nervous. 
“Wands out, d’you reckon?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, glad that Cedric had made the 
suggestion rather than him. 

They pulled out their wands. Harry kept looking 
around him. He had, yet again, the strange feeling 
that they were being watched. 

“Someone’s coming,” he said suddenly. 

Squinting tensely through the darkness, they watched 
the figure drawing nearer, walking steadily toward 
them between the graves. Harry couldn’t make out a 
face, but from the way it was walking and holding its 
arms, he could tell that it was carrying something. 
Whoever it was, he was short, and wearing a hooded 
cloak pulled up over his head to obscure his face. And 
— several paces nearer, the gap between them closing 
all the time — Harry saw that the thing in the 
person’s arms looked like a baby ... or was it merely a 
bundle of robes? 

Harry lowered his wand slightly and glanced sideways 
at Cedric. Cedric shot him a quizzical look. They both 
turned back to watch the approaching figure. 

It stopped beside a towering marble headstone, only 
six feet from them. For a second, Harry and Cedric 
and the short figure simply looked at one another. 



Page | 704 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




And then, without warning, Harry’s scar exploded 
with pain. It was agony such as he had never felt in 
all his life; his wand slipped from his fingers as he put 
his hands over his face; his knees buckled; he was on 
the ground and he could see nothing at all; his head 
was about to split open. 

From far away, above his head, he heard a high, cold 
voice say, “Kill the spare.” 

A swishing noise and a second voice, which screeched 
the words to the night: “Avada KedavraV’ 

A blast of green light blazed through Harry’s eyelids, 
and he heard something heavy fall to the ground 
beside him; the pain in his scar reached such a pitch 
that he retched, and then it diminished; terrified of 
what he was about to see, he opened his stinging 
eyes. 

Cedric was lying spread-eagled on the ground beside 
him. He was dead. 

For a second that contained an eternity, Harry stared 
into Cedric’s face, at his open gray eyes, blank and 
expressionless as the windows of a deserted house, at 
his half-open mouth, which looked slightly surprised. 
And then, before Harry’s mind had accepted what he 
was seeing, before he could feel anything but numb 
disbelief, he felt himself being pulled to his feet. 

The short man in the cloak had put down his bundle, 
lit his wand, and was dragging Harry toward the 
marble headstone. Harry saw the name upon it 
flickering in the wandlight before he was forced 
around and slammed against it. 

TOM RIDDLE 



Page | 705 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




The cloaked man was now conjuring tight cords 
around Harry, tying him from neck to ankles to the 
headstone. Harry could hear shallow, fast breathing 
from the depths of the hood; he struggled, and the 
man hit him — hit him with a hand that had a finger 
missing. And Harry realized who was under the hood. 
It was Wormtail. 

“You!” he gasped. 

But Wormtail, who had finished conjuring the ropes, 
did not reply; he was busy checking the tightness of 
the cords, his fingers trembling uncontrollably, 
fumbling over the knots. Once sure that Harry was 
bound so tightly to the headstone that he couldn’t 
move an inch, Wormtail drew a length of some black 
material from the inside of his cloak and stuffed it 
roughly into Harry’s mouth; then, without a word, he 
turned from Harry and hurried away. Harry couldn’t 
make a sound, nor could he see where Wormtail had 
gone; he couldn’t turn his head to see beyond the 
headstone; he could see only what was right in front 
of him. 

Cedric’s body was lying some twenty feet away. Some 
way beyond him, glinting in the starlight, lay the 
Triwizard Cup. Harry’s wand was on the ground at 
Cedric’s feet. The bundle of robes that Harry had 
thought was a baby was close by, at the foot of the 
grave. It seemed to be stirring fretfully. Harry watched 
it, and his scar seared with pain again . . . and he 
suddenly knew that he didn’t want to see what was in 
those robes ... he didn’t want that bundle opened. ... 

He could hear noises at his feet. He looked down and 
saw a gigantic snake slithering through the grass, 
circling the headstone where he was tied. Wormtail’s 
fast, wheezy breathing was growing louder again. It 
sounded as though he was forcing something heavy 
Page | 706 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




across the ground. Then he came back within Harry’s 
range of vision, and Harry saw him pushing a stone 
cauldron to the foot of the grave. It was full of what 
seemed to be water — Harry could hear it slopping 
around — and it was larger than any cauldron Harry 
had ever used; a great stone belly large enough for a 
full-grown man to sit in. 

The thing inside the bundle of robes on the ground 
was stirring more persistently, as though it was trying 
to free itself. Now Wormtail was busying himself at 
the bottom of the cauldron with a wand. Suddenly 
there were crackling flames beneath it. The large 
snake slithered away into the darkness. 

The liquid in the cauldron seemed to heat very fast. 
The surface began not only to bubble, but to send out 
fiery sparks, as though it were on fire. Steam was 
thickening, blurring the outline of Wormtail tending 
the fire. The movements beneath the robes became 
more agitated. And Harry heard the high, cold voice 
again. 

“Hurry\” 

The whole surface of the water was alight with sparks 
now. It might have been encrusted with diamonds. 

“It is ready, Master.” 

“Now ...” said the cold voice. 

Wormtail pulled open the robes on the ground, 
revealing what was inside them, and Harry let out a 
yell that was strangled in the wad of material blocking 
his mouth. 

It was as though Wormtail had flipped over a stone 
and revealed something ugly, slimy, and blind — but 

Page | 707 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




worse, a hundred times worse. The thing Wormtail 
had been carrying had the shape of a crouched 
human child, except that Harry had never seen 
anything less like a child. It was hairless and scaly - 
looking, a dark, raw, reddish black. Its arms and legs 
were thin and feeble, and its face — no child alive 
ever had a face like that — flat and snakelike, with 
gleaming red eyes. 

The thing seemed almost helpless; it raised its thin 
arms, put them around Wormtail’s neck, and 
Wormtail lifted it. As he did so, his hood fell back, 
and Harry saw the look of revulsion on Wormtail’s 
weak, pale face in the firelight as he carried the 
creature to the rim of the cauldron. For one moment, 
Harry saw the evil, flat face illuminated in the sparks 
dancing on the surface of the potion. And then 
Wormtail lowered the creature into the cauldron; 
there was a hiss, and it vanished below the surface; 
Harry heard its frail body hit the bottom with a soft 
thud. 

Let it drown, Harry thought, his scar burning almost 
past endurance, please ... let it drown. ... 

Wormtail was speaking. His voice shook; he seemed 
frightened beyond his wits. He raised his wand, 
closed his eyes, and spoke to the night. 

“Bone of the father, unknowingly given, you will renew 
your son!” 

The surface of the grave at Harry’s feet cracked. 
Horrified, Harry watched as a fine trickle of dust rose 
into the air at Wormtail’s command and fell softly into 
the cauldron. The diamond surface of the water broke 
and hissed; it sent sparks in all directions and turned 
a vivid, poisonous-looking blue. 



Page | 708 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




And now Wormtail was whimpering. He pulled a long, 
thin, shining silver dagger from inside his cloak. His 
voice broke into petrified sobs. 

“ Flesh — of the servant — w-willingly given — you will 
— revive — your master.” 

He stretched his right hand out in front of him — the 
hand with the missing finger. He gripped the dagger 
very tightly in his left hand and swung it upward. 

Harry realized what Wormtail was about to do a 
second before it happened — he closed his eyes as 
tightly as he could, but he could not block the scream 
that pierced the night, that went through Harry as 
though he had been stabbed with the dagger too. He 
heard something fall to the ground, heard Wormtail’s 
anguished panting, then a sickening splash, as 
something was dropped into the cauldron. Harry 
couldn’t stand to look ... but the potion had turned a 
burning red; the light of it shone through Harry’s 
closed eyelids... 

Wormtail was gasping and moaning with agony. Not 
until Harry felt Wormtail’s anguished breath on his 
face did he realize that Wormtail was right in front of 
him. 

“B-blood of the enemy ... forcibly taken ... you will ... 
resurrect your foe.” 

Harry could do nothing to prevent it, he was tied too 
tightly. ... Squinting down, struggling hopelessly at 
the ropes binding him, he saw the shining silver 
dagger shaking in Wormtail’s remaining hand. He felt 
its point penetrate the crook of his right arm and 
blood seeping down the sleeve of his torn robes. 
Wormtail, still panting with pain, fumbled in his 



Page | 709 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




pocket for a glass vial and held it to Harry’s cut, so 
that a dribble of blood fell into it. 

He staggered back to the cauldron with Harry’s blood. 
He poured it inside. The liquid within turned, 
instantly, a blinding white. Wormtail, his job done, 
dropped to his knees beside the cauldron, then 
slumped sideways and lay on the ground, cradling the 
bleeding stump of his arm, gasping and sobbing. 

The cauldron was simmering, sending its diamond 
sparks in all directions, so blindingly bright that it 
turned all else to velvety blackness. Nothing 
happened. ... 

Let it have drowned, Harry thought, let it have gone 
wrong. ... 

And then, suddenly, the sparks emanating from the 
cauldron were extinguished. A surge of white steam 
billowed thickly from the cauldron instead, 
obliterating everything in front of Harry, so that he 
couldn’t see Wormtail or Cedric or anything but vapor 
hanging in the air. . . It’s gone wrong, he thought . . . it’s 
drowned . . . please . . . please let it be dead. . . 

But then, through the mist in front of him, he saw, 
with an icy surge of terror, the dark outline of a man, 
tall and skeletally thin, rising slowly from inside the 
cauldron. 

“Robe me,” said the high, cold voice from behind the 
steam, and Wormtail, sobbing and moaning, still 
cradling his mutilated arm, scrambled to pick up the 
black robes from the ground, got to his feet, reached 
up, and pulled them one-handed over his master’s 
head. 



Page | 710 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




The thin man stepped out of the cauldron, staring at 
Harry . . . and Harry stared back into the face that had 
haunted his nightmares for three years. Whiter than a 
skull, with wide, livid scarlet eyes and a nose that 
was flat as a snake’s with slits for nostrils ... 

Lord Voldemort had risen again. 



Page | 711 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






THE DEATH EATERS 

Voldemort looked away from Harry and began 
examining his own body. His hands were like large, 
pale spiders; his long white fingers caressed his own 
chest, his arms, his face; the red eyes, whose pupils 
were slits, like a cat’s, gleamed still more brightly 
through the darkness. He held up his hands and 
flexed the fingers, his expression rapt and exultant. 

He took not the slightest notice of Wormtail, who lay 
twitching and bleeding on the ground, nor of the great 
snake, which had slithered back into sight and was 
circling Harry again, hissing. Voldemort slipped one of 
those unnaturally long-fingered hands into a deep 
pocket and drew out a wand. He caressed it gently 
too; and then he raised it, and pointed it at Wormtail, 
who was lifted off the ground and thrown against the 
headstone where Harry was tied; he fell to the foot of 
it and lay there, crumpled up and crying. Voldemort 
turned his scarlet eyes upon Harry, laughing a high, 
cold, mirthless laugh. 

Wormtail’s robes were shining with blood now; he had 
wrapped the stump of his arm in them. 

Page | 712 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



“My Lord ...” he choked, “my Lord ... you promised ... 
you did promise ...” 

“Hold out your arm,” said Voldemort lazily. 

“Oh Master ... thank you, Master ...” 

He extended the bleeding stump, but Voldemort 
laughed again. 

“The other arm, Wormtail.” 

“Master, please ... please ...” 

Voldemort bent down and pulled out Wormtail’s left 
arm; he forced the sleeve of Wormtail’s robes up past 
his elbow, and Harry saw something upon the skin 
there, something like a vivid red tattoo — a skull with 
a snake protruding from its mouth — the image that 
had appeared in the sky at the Quidditch World Cup: 
the Dark Mark. Voldemort examined it carefully, 
ignoring Wormtail’s uncontrollable weeping. 

“It is back,” he said softly, “they will all have noticed it 
... and now, we shall see ... now we shall know ...” 

He pressed his long white forefinger to the brand on 
Wormtail’s arm. 

The scar on Harry’s forehead seared with a sharp 
pain again, and Wormtail let out a fresh howl; 
Voldemort removed his fingers from Wormtail’s mark, 
and Harry saw that it had turned jet black. 

A look of cruel satisfaction on his face, Voldemort 
straightened up, threw back his head, and stared 
around at the dark graveyard. 



Page | 713 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“How many will be brave enough to return when they 
feel it?” he whispered, his gleaming red eyes fixed 
upon the stars. “And how many will be foolish enough 
to stay away?” 

He began to pace up and down before Harry and 
Wormtail, eyes sweeping the graveyard all the while. 
After a minute or so, he looked down at Harry again, 
a cruel smile twisting his snakelike face. 

“You stand, Harry Potter, upon the remains of my late 
father,” he hissed softly. “A Muggle and a fool ... very 
like your dear mother. But they both had their uses, 
did they not? Your mother died to defend you as a 
child . . . and I killed my father, and see how useful he 
has proved himself, in death. ...” 

Voldemort laughed again. Up and down he paced, 
looking all around him as he walked, and the snake 
continued to circle in the grass. 

“You see that house upon the hillside, Potter? My 
father lived there. My mother, a witch who lived here 
in this village, fell in love with him. But he abandoned 
her when she told him what she was. ... He didn’t like 
magic, my father . . . 

“He left her and returned to his Muggle parents before 
I was even born, Potter, and she died giving birth to 
me, leaving me to be raised in a Muggle orphanage ... 
but I vowed to find him ... I revenged myself upon 
him, that fool who gave me his name . . . Tom Riddle. 



Still he paced, his red eyes darting from grave to 
grave. 



Page | 714 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Listen to me, reliving family history ...” he said 
quietly, “why, I am growing quite sentimental. ... But 
look, Harry! My true family returns. ...” 

The air was suddenly full of the swishing of cloaks. 
Between graves, behind the yew tree, in every 
shadowy space, wizards were Apparating. All of them 
were hooded and masked. And one by one they moved 
forward . . . slowly, cautiously, as though they could 
hardly believe their eyes. Voldemort stood in silence, 
waiting for them. Then one of the Death Eaters fell to 
his knees, crawled toward Voldemort, and kissed the 
hem of his black robes. 

“Master ... Master ...” he murmured. 

The Death Eaters behind him did the same; each of 
them approaching Voldemort on his knees and 
kissing his robes, before backing away and standing 
up, forming a silent circle, which enclosed Tom 
Riddle’s grave, Harry, Voldemort, and the sobbing and 
twitching heap that was Wormtail. Yet they left gaps 
in the circle, as though waiting for more people. 
Voldemort, however, did not seem to expect more. He 
looked around at the hooded faces, and though there 
was no wind, a rustling seemed to run around the 
circle, as though it had shivered. 

“Welcome, Death Eaters,” said Voldemort quietly. 
“Thirteen years ... thirteen years since last we met. 

Yet you answer my call as though it were yesterday. 

... We are still united under the Dark Mark, then! Or 
are we?” 

He put back his terrible face and sniffed, his slit-like 
nostrils widening. 

“I smell guilt,” he said. “There is a stench of guilt 
upon the air.” 

Page | 715 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




A second shiver ran around the circle, as though each 
member of it longed, but did not dare, to step back 
from him. 

“I see you all, whole and healthy, with your powers 
intact — such prompt appearances! — and I ask 
myself . . . why did this band of wizards never come to 
the aid of their master, to whom they swore eternal 
loyalty?” 

No one spoke. No one moved except Wormtail, who 
was upon the ground, still sobbing over his bleeding 
arm. 

“And I answer myself,” whispered Voldemort, “they 
must have believed me broken, they thought I was 
gone. They slipped back among my enemies, and they 
pleaded innocence, and ignorance, and bewitchment. 



“And then I ask myself, but how could they have 
believed I would not rise again? They, who knew the 
steps I took, long ago, to guard myself against mortal 
death? They, who had seen proofs of the immensity of 
my power in the times when I was mightier than any 
wizard living? 

“And I answer myself, perhaps they believed a still 
greater power could exist, one that could vanquish 
even Lord Voldemort ... perhaps they now pay 
allegiance to another . . . perhaps that champion of 
commoners, of Mudbloods and Muggles, Albus 
Dumbledore?” 

At the mention of Dumbledore’s name, the members 
of the circle stirred, and some muttered and shook 
their heads. Voldemort ignored them. 



Page | 716 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“It is a disappointment to me ... I confess myself 
disappointed. ...” 

One of the men suddenly flung himself forward, 
breaking the circle. Trembling from head to foot, he 
collapsed at Voldemort’s feet. 

“Master!” he shrieked, “Master, forgive me! Forgive us 
all!” 

Voldemort began to laugh. He raised his wand. 

“ Cruciol ” 

The Death Eater on the ground writhed and shrieked; 
Harry was sure the sound must carry to the houses 
around. ... Let the police come, he thought desperately 
... anyone ... anything ... 



Voldemort raised his wand. The tortured Death Eater 
lay flat upon the ground, gasping. 

“Get up, Avery,” said Voldemort softly. “Stand up. You 
ask for forgiveness? I do not forgive. I do not forget. 
Thirteen long years ... I want thirteen years’ 
repayment before I forgive you. Wormtail here has 
paid some of his debt already, have you not, 
Wormtail?” 

He looked down at Wormtail, who continued to sob. 

“You returned to me, not out of loyalty, but out of fear 
of your old friends. You deserve this pain, Wormtail. 
You know that, don’t you?” 

“Yes, Master,” moaned Wormtail, “please, Master ... 
please ...” 



Page | 717 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Yet you helped return me to my body,” said 
Voldemort coolly, watching Wormtail sob on the 
ground. “Worthless and traitorous as you are, you 
helped me . . . and Lord Voldemort rewards his 
helpers. ...” 

Voldemort raised his wand again and whirled it 
through the air. A streak of what looked like molten 
silver hung shining in the wand’s wake. Momentarily 
shapeless, it writhed and then formed itself into a 
gleaming replica of a human hand, bright as 
moonlight, which soared downward and fixed itself 
upon Wormtail’s bleeding wrist. 

Wormtail’s sobbing stopped abruptly. His breathing 
harsh and ragged, he raised his head and stared in 
disbelief at the silver hand, now attached seamlessly 
to his arm, as though he were wearing a dazzling 
glove. He flexed the shining fingers, then, trembling, 
picked up a small twig on the ground and crushed it 
into powder. 

“My Lord,” he whispered. “Master ... it is beautiful ... 
thank you ... thank you. ...” 

He scrambled forward on his knees and kissed the 
hem of Voldemort’s robes. 

“May your loyalty never waver again, Wormtail,” said 
Voldemort. 

“No, my Lord ... never, my Lord ...” 

Wormtail stood up and took his place in the circle, 
staring at his powerful new hand, his face still 
shining with tears. Voldemort now approached the 
man on Wormtail’s right. 



Page | 718 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Lucius, my slippery friend,” he whispered, halting 
before him. “I am told that you have not renounced 
the old ways, though to the world you present a 
respectable face. You are still ready to take the lead in 
a spot of Muggle-torture, I believe? Yet you never tried 
to find me, Lucius. ... Your exploits at the Quidditch 
World Cup were fun, I daresay ... but might not your 
energies have been better directed toward finding and 
aiding your master?” 

“My Lord, I was constantly on the alert,” came Lucius 
Malfoy’s voice swiftly from beneath the hood. “Had 
there been any sign from you, any whisper of your 
whereabouts, I would have been at your side 
immediately, nothing could have prevented me — ” 

“And yet you ran from my Mark, when a faithful 
Death Eater sent it into the sky last summer?” said 
Voldemort lazily, and Mr. Malfoy stopped talking 
abruptly. “Yes, I know all about that, Lucius. ... You 
have disappointed me. ... I expect more faithful 
service in the future.” 

“Of course, my Lord, of course. ... You are merciful, 
thank you. ...” 

Voldemort moved on, and stopped, staring at the 
space — large enough for two people — that 
separated Malfoy and the next man. 

“The Lestranges should stand here,” said Voldemort 
quietly. “But they are entombed in Azkaban. They 
were faithful. They went to Azkaban rather than 
renounce me. ... When Azkaban is broken open, the 
Lestranges will be honored beyond their dreams. The 
dementors will join us ... they are our natural allies ... 
we will recall the banished giants ... I shall have all 
my devoted servants returned to me, and an army of 
creatures whom all fear. ...” 

Page | 719 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




He walked on. Some of the Death Eaters he passed in 
silence, but he paused before others and spoke to 
them. 

“Macnair . . . destroying dangerous beasts for the 
Ministry of Magic now, Wormtail tells me? You shall 
have better victims than that soon, Macnair. Lord 
Voldemort will provide. ...” 

“Thank you, Master ... thank you,” murmured 
Macnair. 

“And here” — Voldemort moved on to the two largest 
hooded figures — “we have Crabbe . . . you will do 
better this time, will you not, Crabbe? And you, 
Goyle?” 

They bowed clumsily, muttering dully. 

“Yes, Master ...” 

“We will, Master. ...” 

“The same goes for you, Nott,” said Voldemort quietly 
as he walked past a stooped figure in Mr. Goyle ’s 
shadow. 

“My Lord, I prostrate myself before you, I am your 
most faithful — ” 

“That will do,” said Voldemort. 

He had reached the largest gap of all, and he stood 
surveying it with his blank, red eyes, as though he 
could see people standing there. 

“And here we have six missing Death Eaters . . . three 
dead in my service. One, too cowardly to return ... he 
will pay. One, who I believe has left me forever ... he 

Page | 720 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




will be killed, of course ... and one, who remains my 
most faithful servant, and who has already reentered 
my service.” 

The Death Eaters stirred, and Harry saw their eyes 
dart sideways at one another through their masks. 

“He is at Hogwarts, that faithful servant, and it was 
through his efforts that our young friend arrived here 
tonight. ... 

“Yes,” said Voldemort, a grin curling his lipless mouth 
as the eyes of the circle flashed in Harry’s direction. 
“Harry Potter has kindly joined us for my rebirthing 
party. One might go so far as to call him my guest of 
honor.” 

There was a silence. Then the Death Eater to the right 
of Wormtail stepped forward, and Lucius Malfoy’s 
voice spoke from under the mask. 

“Master, we crave to know . . . we beg you to tell us . . . 
how you have achieved this . . . this miracle . . . how 
you managed to return to us. ...” 

“Ah, what a story it is, Lucius,” said Voldemort. “And 
it begins — and ends — with my young friend here.” 

He walked lazily over to stand next to Harry, so that 
the eyes of the whole circle were upon the two of 
them. The snake continued to circle. 

“You know, of course, that they have called this boy 
my downfall?” Voldemort said softly, his red eyes 
upon Harry, whose scar began to burn so fiercely that 
he almost screamed in agony. “You all know that on 
the night I lost my powers and my body, I tried to kill 
him. His mother died in the attempt to save him — 
and unwittingly provided him with a protection I 
Page | 721 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




admit I had not foreseen. ... I could not touch the 
boy.” 

Voldemort raised one of his long white fingers and put 
it very close to Harry’s cheek. 

“His mother left upon him the traces of her sacrifice. 

. . . This is old magic, I should have remembered it, I 
was foolish to overlook it . . . but no matter. I can 
touch him now.” 

Harry felt the cold tip of the long white finger touch 
him, and thought his head would burst with the pain. 
Voldemort laughed softly in his ear, then took the 
finger away and continued addressing the Death 
Eaters. 

“I miscalculated, my friends, I admit it. My curse was 
deflected by the woman’s foolish sacrifice, and it 
rebounded upon myself. Aaah . . . pain beyond pain, 
my friends; nothing could have prepared me for it. I 
was ripped from my body, I was less than spirit, less 
than the meanest ghost ... but still, I was alive. What 
I was, even I do not know ... I, who have gone further 
than anybody along the path that leads to 
immortality. You know my goal — to conquer death. 
And now, I was tested, and it appeared that one or 
more of my experiments had worked . . . for I had not 
been killed, though the curse should have done it. 
Nevertheless, I was as powerless as the weakest 
creature alive, and without the means to help myself 
. . . for I had no body, and every spell that might have 
helped me required the use of a wand. ... 

“I remember only forcing myself, sleeplessly, 
endlessly, second by second, to exist. ... I settled in a 
faraway place, in a forest, and I waited. ... Surely, one 
of my faithful Death Eaters would try and find me . . . 
one of them would come and perform the magic I 
Page | 722 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




could not, to restore me to a body . . . but I waited in 
vain. ...” 

The shiver ran once more around the circle of 
listening Death Eaters. Voldemort let the silence 
spiral horribly before continuing. 

“Only one power remained to me. I could possess the 
bodies of others. But I dared not go where other 
humans were plentiful, for I knew that the Aurors 
were still abroad and searching for me. I sometimes 
inhabited animals — snakes, of course, being my 
preference — but I was little better off inside them 
than as pure spirit, for their bodies were ill adapted to 
perform magic ... and my possession of them 
shortened their lives; none of them lasted long. ... 

“Then . . . four years ago . . . the means for my return 
seemed assured. A wizard — young, foolish, and 
gullible — wandered across my path in the forest I 
had made my home. Oh, he seemed the very chance I 
had been dreaming of . . . for he was a teacher at 
Dumbledore’s school ... he was easy to bend to my 
will ... he brought me back to this country, and after 
a while, I took possession of his body, to supervise 
him closely as he carried out my orders. But my plan 
failed. I did not manage to steal the Sorcerer’s Stone. I 
was not to be assured immortal life. I was thwarted ... 
thwarted, once again, by Harry Potter. ...” 

Silence once more; nothing was stirring, not even the 
leaves on the yew tree. The Death Eaters were quite 
motionless, the glittering eyes in their masks fixed 
upon Voldemort, and upon Harry. 

“The servant died when I left his body, and I was left 
as weak as ever I had been,” Voldemort continued. “I 
returned to my hiding place far away, and I will not 
pretend to you that I didn’t then fear that I might 

Page | 723 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




never regain my powers. ... Yes, that was perhaps my 
darkest hour ... I could not hope that I would be sent 
another wizard to possess ... and I had given up hope, 
now, that any of my Death Eaters cared what had 
become of me. ...” 

One or two of the masked wizards in the circle moved 
uncomfortably, but Voldemort took no notice. 

“And then, not even a year ago, when I had almost 
abandoned hope, it happened at last ... a servant 
returned to me. Wormtail here, who had faked his 
own death to escape justice, was driven out of hiding 
by those he had once counted friends, and decided to 
return to his master. He sought me in the country 
where it had long been rumored I was hiding . . . 
helped, of course, by the rats he met along the way. 
Wormtail has a curious affinity with rats, do you not, 
Wormtail? His filthy little friends told him there was a 
place, deep in an Albanian forest, that they avoided, 
where small animals like themselves had met their 
deaths by a dark shadow that possessed them. ... 

“But his journey back to me was not smooth, was it, 
Wormtail? For, hungry one night, on the edge of the 
very forest where he had hoped to find me, he 
foolishly stopped at an inn for some food . . . and who 
should he meet there, but one Bertha Jorkins, a 
witch from the Ministry of Magic. 

“Now see the way that fate favors Lord Voldemort. 

This might have been the end of Wormtail, and of my 
last hope for regeneration. But Wormtail — displaying 
a presence of mind I would never have expected from 
him — convinced Bertha Jorkins to accompany him 
on a nighttime stroll. He overpowered her ... he 
brought her to me. And Bertha Jorkins, who might 
have ruined all, proved instead to be a gift beyond my 



Page | 724 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




wildest dreams . . . for — with a little persuasion — she 
became a veritable mine of information. 

“She told me that the Triwizard Tournament would be 
played at Hogwarts this year. She told me that she 
knew of a faithful Death Eater who would be only too 
willing to help me, if I could only contact him. She 
told me many things . . . but the means I used to break 
the Memory Charm upon her were powerful, and 
when I had extracted all useful information from her, 
her mind and body were both damaged beyond repair. 
She had now served her purpose. I could not possess 
her. I disposed of her.” 

Voldemort smiled his terrible smile, his red eyes 
blank and pitiless. 

“Wormtail’s body, of course, was ill adapted for 
possession, as all assumed him dead, and would 
attract far too much attention if noticed. However, he 
was the able-bodied servant I needed, and, poor 
wizard though he is, Wormtail was able to follow the 
instructions I gave him, which would return me to a 
rudimentary, weak body of my own, a body I would be 
able to inhabit while awaiting the essential 
ingredients for true rebirth ... a spell or two of my 
own invention ... a little help from my dear Nagini,” 
Voldemort’s red eyes fell upon the continually circling 
snake, “a potion concocted from unicorn blood, and 
the snake venom Nagini provided ... I was soon 
returned to an almost human form, and strong 
enough to travel. 

“There was no hope of stealing the Sorcerer’s Stone 
anymore, for I knew that Dumbledore would have 
seen to it that it was destroyed. But I was willing to 
embrace mortal life again, before chasing immortality. 
I set my sights lower ... I would settle for my old body 
back again, and my old strength. 

Page | 725 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“I knew that to achieve this — it is an old piece of 
Dark Magic, the potion that revived me tonight — I 
would need three powerful ingredients. Well, one of 
them was already at hand, was it not, Wormtail? 

Flesh given by a servant. ... 

“My father’s bone, naturally, meant that we would 
have to come here, where he was buried. But the 
blood of a foe ... Wormtail would have had me use any 
wizard, would you not, Wormtail? Any wizard who 
had hated me ... as so many of them still do. But I 
knew the one I must use, if I was to rise again, more 
powerful than I had been when I had fallen. I wanted 
Harry Potter’s blood. I wanted the blood of the one 
who had stripped me of power thirteen years ago . . . 
for the lingering protection his mother once gave him 
would then reside in my veins too. ... 

“But how to get at Harry Potter? For he has been 
better protected than I think even he knows, 
protected in ways devised by Dumbledore long ago, 
when it fell to him to arrange the boy’s future. 
Dumbledore invoked an ancient magic, to ensure the 
boy’s protection as long as he is in his relations’ care. 
Not even I can touch him there. ... Then, of course, 
there was the Quidditch World Cup. ... I thought his 
protection might be weaker there, away from his 
relations and Dumbledore, but I was not yet strong 
enough to attempt kidnap in the midst of a horde of 
Ministry wizards. And then, the boy would return to 
Hogwarts, where he is under the crooked nose of that 
Muggle-loving fool from morning until night. So how 
could I take him? 

“Why ... by using Bertha Jorkins’s information, of 
course. Use my one faithful Death Eater, stationed at 
Hogwarts, to ensure that the boy’s name was entered 
into the Goblet of Fire. Use my Death Eater to ensure 
that the boy won the tournament — that he touched 
Page | 726 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




the Triwizard Cup first — the cup which my Death 
Eater had turned into a Portkey, which would bring 
him here, beyond the reach of Dumbledore’s help and 
protection, and into my waiting arms. And here he is 
... the boy you all believed had been my downfall...” 

Voldemort moved slowly forward and turned to face 
Harry. He raised his wand. 

“Crucio\” 

It was pain beyond anything Harry had ever 
experienced; his very bones were on fire; his head was 
surely splitting along his scar; his eyes were rolling 
madly in his head; he wanted it to end ... to black out 
...to die ... 

And then it was gone. He was hanging limply in the 
ropes binding him to the headstone of Voldemort’s 
father, looking up into those bright red eyes through 
a kind of mist. The night was ringing with the sound 
of the Death Eaters’ laughter. 

“You see, I think, how foolish it was to suppose that 
this boy could ever have been stronger than me,” said 
Voldemort. “But I want there to be no mistake in 
anybody’s mind. Harry Potter escaped me by a lucky 
chance. And I am now going to prove my power by 
killing him, here and now, in front of you all, when 
there is no Dumbledore to help him, and no mother to 
die for him. I will give him his chance. He will be 
allowed to fight, and you will be left in no doubt 
which of us is the stronger. Just a little longer, 
Nagini,” he whispered, and the snake glided away 
through the grass to where the Death Eaters stood 
watching. 

“Now untie him, Wormtail, and give him back his 
wand.” 

Page | 727 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






PRIORI INCANTATEM 

Wormtail approached Harry, who scrambled to find 
his feet, to support his own weight before the ropes 
were untied. Wormtail raised his new silver hand, 
pulled out the wad of material gagging Harry, and 
then, with one swipe, cut through the bonds tying 
Harry to the gravestone. 

There was a split second, perhaps, when Harry might 
have considered running for it, but his injured leg 
shook under him as he stood on the overgrown grave, 
as the Death Eaters closed ranks, forming a tighter 
circle around him and Voldemort, so that the gaps 
where the missing Death Eaters should have stood 
were filled. Wormtail walked out of the circle to the 
place where Cedric’s body lay and returned with 
Harry’s wand, which he thrust roughly into Harry’s 
hand without looking at him. Then Wormtail resumed 
his place in the circle of watching Death Eaters. 

“You have been taught how to duel, Harry Potter?” 
said Voldemort softly, his red eyes glinting through 
the darkness. 

Page | 728 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



At these words Harry remembered, as though from a 
former life, the dueling club at Hogwarts he had 
attended briefly two years ago. ... All he had learned 
there was the Disarming Spell, “ Expelliarmus” ... and 
what use would it be to deprive Voldemort of his 
wand, even if he could, when he was surrounded by 
Death Eaters, outnumbered by at least thirty to one? 
He had never learned anything that could possibly fit 
him for this. He knew he was facing the thing against 
which Moody had always warned . . . the un-blockable 
Avada Kedavra curse — and Voldemort was right — 
his mother was not here to die for him this time. ... 

He was quite unprotected. ... 

“We bow to each other, Harry,” said Voldemort, 
bending a little, but keeping his snakelike face 
upturned to Harry. “Come, the niceties must be 
observed. ... Dumbledore would like you to show 
manners. ... Bow to death, Harry. ...” 

The Death Eaters were laughing again. Voldemort’s 
lipless mouth was smiling. Harry did not bow. He was 
not going to let Voldemort play with him before killing 
him ... he was not going to give him that satisfaction. 



“I said, bow,” Voldemort said, raising his wand — and 
Harry felt his spine curve as though a huge, invisible 
hand were bending him ruthlessly forward, and the 
Death Eaters laughed harder than ever. 

“Very good,” said Voldemort softly, and as he raised 
his wand the pressure bearing down upon Harry lifted 
too. “And now you face me, like a man ... straight- 
backed and proud, the way your father died. ... 

“And now — we duel.” 



Page | 729 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Voldemort raised his wand, and before Harry could do 
anything to defend himself, before he could even 
move, he had been hit again by the Cruciatus Curse. 
The pain was so intense, so all-consuming, that he no 
longer knew where he was. ... White-hot knives were 
piercing every inch of his skin, his head was surely 
going to burst with pain, he was screaming more 
loudly than he’d ever screamed in his life — 

And then it stopped. Harry rolled over and scrambled 
to his feet; he was shaking as uncontrollably as 
Wormtail had done when his hand had been cut off; 
he staggered sideways into the wall of watching Death 
Eaters, and they pushed him away, back toward 
Voldemort. 

“A little break,” said Voldemort, the slit-like nostrils 
dilating with excitement, “a little pause . . . That hurt, 
didn’t it, Harry? You don’t want me to do that again, 
do you?” 

Harry didn’t answer. He was going to die like Cedric, 
those pitiless red eyes were telling him so ... he was 
going to die, and there was nothing he could do about 
it... but he wasn’t going to play along. He wasn’t going 
to obey Voldemort ... he wasn’t going to beg. ... 

“I asked you whether you want me to do that again,” 
said Voldemort softly. “Answer me! ImperioV’ 

And Harry felt, for the third time in his life, the 
sensation that his mind had been wiped of all 
thought. ... Ah, it was bliss, not to think, it was as 
though he were floating, dreaming ... just answer no 
. . . say no ... just answer no. . . . 

I will not, said a stronger voice, in the back of his 
head, I won’t answer. ... 



Page | 730 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Just answer no. ... 



I won’t do it, I won’t say it. ... 

Just answer no. ... 

“I WONT!” 

And these words burst from Harry’s mouth; they 
echoed through the graveyard, and the dream state 
was lifted as suddenly as though cold water had been 
thrown over him — back rushed the aches that the 
Cruciatus Curse had left all over his body — back 
rushed the realization of where he was, and what he 
was facing. ... 

“You won’t?” said Voldemort quietly, and the Death 
Eaters were not laughing now. “You won’t say no? 
Harry, obedience is a virtue I need to teach you before 
you die. ... Perhaps another little dose of pain?” 

Voldemort raised his wand, but this time Harry was 
ready; with the reflexes born of his Quidditch 
training, he flung himself sideways onto the ground; 
he rolled behind the marble headstone of Voldemort’s 
father, and he heard it crack as the curse missed 
him. 

“We are not playing hide-and-seek, Harry,” said 
Voldemort’s soft, cold voice, drawing nearer, as the 
Death Eaters laughed. “You cannot hide from me. 

Does this mean you are tired of our duel? Does this 
mean that you would prefer me to finish it now, 

Harry? Come out, Harry . . . come out and play, then 
...it will be quick ... it might even be painless ... I 
would not know ... I have never died. ...” 

Harry crouched behind the headstone and knew the 
end had come. There was no hope ... no help to be 

Page | 731 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




had. And as he heard Voldemort draw nearer still, he 
knew one thing only, and it was beyond fear or 
reason: He was not going to die crouching here like a 
child playing hide-and-seek; he was not going to die 
kneeling at Voldemort’s feet ... he was going to die 
upright like his father, and he was going to die trying 
to defend himself, even if no defense was possible. ... 

Before Voldemort could stick his snakelike face 
around the headstone, Harry stood up ... he gripped 
his wand tightly in his hand, thrust it out in front of 
him, and threw himself around the headstone, facing 
Voldemort. 

Voldemort was ready. As Harry shouted, 

“ ExpelliarmusV’ Voldemort cried, “Avada KedavraV’ 

A jet of green light issued from Voldemort’s wand just 
as a jet of red light blasted from Harry’s — they met 
in midair — and suddenly Harry’s wand was vibrating 
as though an electric charge were surging through it; 
his hand seized up around it; he couldn’t have 
released it if he’d wanted to — and a narrow beam of 
light connected the two wands, neither red nor green, 
but bright, deep gold. Harry, following the beam with 
his astonished gaze, saw that Voldemort’s long white 
fingers too were gripping a wand that was shaking 
and vibrating. 

And then — nothing could have prepared Harry for 
this — he felt his feet lift from the ground. He and 
Voldemort were both being raised into the air, their 
wands still connected by that thread of shimmering 
golden light. They glided away from the tombstone of 
Voldemort’s father and then came to rest on a patch 
of ground that was clear and free of graves. ... The 
Death Eaters were shouting; they were asking 
Voldemort for instructions; they were closing in, 
reforming the circle around Harry and Voldemort, the 
Page | 732 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




snake slithering at their heels, some of them drawing 
their wands — 



The golden thread connecting Harry and Voldemort 
splintered; though the wands remained connected, a 
thousand more beams arced high over Harry and 
Voldemort, crisscrossing all around them, until they 
were enclosed in a golden, dome-shaped web, a cage 
of light, beyond which the Death Eaters circled like 
jackals, their cries strangely muffled now. ... 

“Do nothing!” Voldemort shrieked to the Death 
Eaters, and Harry saw his red eyes wide with 
astonishment at what was happening, saw him 
fighting to break the thread of light still connecting 
his wand with Harry’s; Harry held onto his wand 
more tightly, with both hands, and the golden thread 
remained unbroken. “Do nothing unless I command 
you!” Voldemort shouted to the Death Eaters. 

And then an unearthly and beautiful sound filled the 
air. ... It was coming from every thread of the light- 
spun web vibrating around Harry and Voldemort. It 
was a sound Harry recognized, though he had heard 
it only once before in his life: phoenix song. 

It was the sound of hope to Harry . . . the most 
beautiful and welcome thing he had ever heard in his 
life. ... He felt as though the song were inside him 
instead of just around him. ... It was the sound he 
connected with Dumbledore, and it was almost as 
though a friend were speaking in his ear. . . . 

Don’t break the connection. 

I know, Harry told the music, I know I mustn’t ... but 
no sooner had he thought it, than the thing became 
much harder to do. His wand began to vibrate more 
powerfully than ever . . . and now the beam between 

Page | 733 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire -J.K. Rowling 




him and Voldemort changed too ... it was as though 
large beads of light were sliding up and down the 
thread connecting the wands — Harry felt his wand 
give a shudder under his hand as the light beads 
began to slide slowly and steadily his way. . . . The 
direction of the beam’s movement was now toward 
him, from Voldemort, and he felt his wand shudder 
angrily. ... 

As the closest bead of light moved nearer to Harry’s 
wand tip, the wood beneath his fingers grew so hot he 
feared it would burst into flame. The closer that bead 
moved, the harder Harry’s wand vibrated; he was sure 
his wand would not survive contact with it; it felt as 
though it was about to shatter under his fingers — 

He concentrated every last particle of his mind upon 
forcing the bead back toward Voldemort, his ears full 
of phoenix song, his eyes furious, fixed ... and slowly, 
very slowly, the beads quivered to a halt, and then, 
just as slowly, they began to move the other way ... 
and it was Voldemort ’s wand that was vibrating extra- 
hard now ... Voldemort who looked astonished, and 
almost fearful. ... 

One of the beads of light was quivering, inches from 
the tip of Voldemort’s wand. Harry didn’t understand 
why he was doing it, didn’t know what it might 
achieve . . . but he now concentrated as he had never 
done in his life on forcing that bead of light right back 
into Voldemort’s wand ... and slowly ... very slowly ... 
it moved along the golden thread ... it trembled for a 
moment... and then it connected. ... 

At once, Voldemort’s wand began to emit echoing 
screams of pain ... then — Voldemort’s red eyes 
widened with shock — a dense, smoky hand flew out 
of the tip of it and vanished . . . the ghost of the hand 
he had made Wormtail ... more shouts of pain ... and 
Page | 734 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




then something much larger began to blossom from 
Voldemort’s wand tip, a great, grayish something, 
that looked as though it were made of the solidest, 
densest smoke. ... It was a head ... now a chest and 
arms . . . the torso of Cedric Diggory. 

If ever Harry might have released his wand from 
shock, it would have been then, but instinct kept him 
clutching his wand tightly, so that the thread of 
golden light remained unbroken, even though the 
thick gray ghost of Cedric Diggory (was it a ghost? it 
looked so solid) emerged in its entirety from the end of 
Voldemort’s wand, as though it were squeezing itself 
out of a very narrow tunnel . . . and this shade of 
Cedric stood up, and looked up and down the golden 
thread of light, and spoke. 

“Hold on, Harry,” it said. 

Its voice was distant and echoing. Harry looked at 
Voldemort . . . his wide red eyes were still shocked . . . 
he had no more expected this than Harry had . . . and, 
very dimly, Harry heard the frightened yells of the 
Death Eaters, prowling around the edges of the 
golden dome. ... 

More screams of pain from the wand . . . and then 
something else emerged from its tip . . . the dense 
shadow of a second head, quickly followed by arms 
and torso ... an old man Harry had seen only in a 
dream was now pushing himself out of the end of the 
wand just as Cedric had done ... and his ghost, or his 
shadow, or whatever it was, fell next to Cedric’s, and 
surveyed Harry and Voldemort, and the golden web, 
and the connected wands, with mild surprise, leaning 
on his walking stick. . . . 



Page | 735 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“He was a real wizard, then?” the old man said, his 
eyes on Voldemort. “Killed me, that one did. ... You 
fight him, boy. ...” 

But already, yet another head was emerging . . . and 
this head, gray as a smoky statue, was a woman’s. ... 
Harry, both arms shaking now as he fought to keep 
his wand still, saw her drop to the ground and 
straighten up like the others, staring. ... 

The shadow of Bertha Jorkins surveyed the battle 
before her with wide eyes. 

“Don’t let go, now!” she cried, and her voice echoed 
like Cedric’s as though from very far away. “Don’t let 
him get you, Harry — don’t let go!” 

She and the other two shadowy figures began to pace 
around the inner walls of the golden web, while the 
Death Eaters flitted around the outside of it ... and 
Voldemort’s dead victims whispered as they circled 
the duelers, whispered words of encouragement to 
Harry, and hissed words Harry couldn’t hear to 
Voldemort. 

And now another head was emerging from the tip of 
Voldemort’s wand ... and Harry knew when he saw it 
who it would be ... he knew, as though he had 
expected it from the moment when Cedric had 
appeared from the wand . . . knew, because the woman 
was the one he’d thought of more than any other 
tonight. ... 

The smoky shadow of a young woman with long hair 
fell to the ground as Bertha had done, straightened 
up, and looked at him ... and Harry, his arms shaking 
madly now, looked back into the ghostly face of his 
mother. 



Page | 736 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Your father’s coming ...” she said quietly. “Hold on 
for your father ... it will be all right ... hold on. ...” 

And he came . . . first his head, then his body . . . tall 
and untidy-haired like Harry, the smoky, shadowy 
form of James Potter blossomed from the end of 
Voldemort’s wand, fell to the ground, and 
straightened like his wife. He walked close to Harry, 
looking down at him, and he spoke in the same 
distant, echoing voice as the others, but quietly, so 
that Voldemort, his face now livid with fear as his 
victims prowled around him, could not hear. . . . 

“When the connection is broken, we will linger for 
only moments . . . but we will give you time . . . you 
must get to the Portkey, it will return you to Hogwarts 
... do you understand, Harry?” 

“Yes,” Harry gasped, fighting now to keep a hold on 
his wand, which was slipping and sliding beneath his 
fingers. 

“Harry ...” whispered the figure of Cedric, “take my 
body back, will you? Take my body back to my 
parents. ...” 

“I will,” said Harry, his face screwed up with the effort 
of holding the wand. 

“Do it now,” whispered his father’s voice, “be ready to 
run ... do it now. ...” 

“NOW!” Harry yelled; he didn’t think he could have 
held on for another moment anyway — he pulled his 
wand upward with an almighty wrench, and the 
golden thread broke; the cage of light vanished, the 
phoenix song died — but the shadowy figures of 
Voldemort’s victims did not disappear — they were 



Page | 737 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




closing in upon Voldemort, shielding Harry from his 
gaze — 

And Harry ran as he had never run in his life, 
knocking two stunned Death Eaters aside as he 
passed; he zigzagged behind headstones, feeling their 
curses following him, hearing them hit the 
headstones — he was dodging curses and graves, 
pelting toward Cedric’s body, no longer aware of the 
pain in his leg, his whole being concentrated on what 
he had to do — 

“Stun him\” he heard Voldemort scream. 

Ten feet from Cedric, Harry dived behind a marble 
angel to avoid the jets of red light and saw the tip of 
its wing shatter as the spells hit it. Gripping his wand 
more tightly, he dashed out from behind the angel — 

“Impedimental” he bellowed, pointing his wand wildly 
over his shoulder at the Death Eaters running at him. 

From a muffled yell, he thought he had stopped at 
least one of them, but there was no time to stop and 
look; he jumped over the cup and dived as he heard 
more wand blasts behind him; more jets of light flew 
over his head as he fell, stretching out his hand to 
grab Cedric’s arm — 

“Stand aside! I will kill him! He is mine!” shrieked 
Voldemort. 

Harry’s hand had closed on Cedric’s wrist; one 
tombstone stood between him and Voldemort, but 
Cedric was too heavy to carry, and the cup was out of 
reach — 



Page | 738 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Voldemort’s red eyes flamed in the darkness. Harry 
saw his mouth curl into a smile, saw him raise his 
wand. 

“Acciol” Harry yelled, pointing his wand at the 
Triwizard Cup. 

It flew into the air and soared toward him. Harry 
caught it by the handle — 

He heard Voldemort’s scream of fury at the same 
moment that he felt the jerk behind his navel that 
meant the Portkey had worked — it was speeding him 
away in a whirl of wind and color, and Cedric along 
with him. ... They were going back. 



Page | 739 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






VERITASERUM 

Harry felt himself slam flat into the ground; his face 
was pressed into grass; the smell of it filled his 
nostrils. He had closed his eyes while the Portkey 
transported him, and he kept them closed now. He 
did not move. All the breath seemed to have been 
knocked out of him; his head was swimming so badly 
he felt as though the ground beneath him were 
swaying like the deck of a ship. To hold himself 
steady, he tightened his hold on the two things he 
was still clutching: the smooth, cold handle of the Tri- 
wizard Cup and Cedric’s body. He felt as though he 
would slide away into the blackness gathering at the 
edges of his brain if he let go of either of them. Shock 
and exhaustion kept him on the ground, breathing in 
the smell of the grass, waiting ... waiting for someone 
to do something . . . something to happen . . . and all 
the while, his scar burned dully on his forehead. ... 

A torrent of sound deafened and confused him; there 
were voices everywhere, footsteps, screams. ... He 
remained where he was, his face screwed up against 



Page | 740 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



the noise, as though it were a nightmare that would 
pass. ... 

Then a pair of hands seized him roughly and turned 
him over. 

“Harry! HarryV’ 

He opened his eyes. 

He was looking up at the starry sky, and Albus 
Dumbledore was crouched over him. The dark 
shadows of a crowd of people pressed in around 
them, pushing nearer; Harry felt the ground beneath 
his head reverberating with their footsteps. 

He had come back to the edge of the maze. He could 
see the stands rising above him, the shapes of people 
moving in them, the stars above. 

Harry let go of the cup, but he clutched Cedric to him 
even more tightly. He raised his free hand and seized 
Dumbledore ’s wrist, while Dumbledore ’s face swam in 
and out of focus. 

“He’s back,” Harry whispered. “He’s back. Voldemort.” 

“What’s going on? What’s happened?” 

The face of Cornelius Fudge appeared upside down 
over Harry; it looked white, appalled. 

“My God — Diggory!” it whispered. “Dumbledore — 
he’s dead!” 

The words were repeated, the shadowy figures 
pressing in on them gasped it to those around them 
. . . and then others shouted it — screeched it — into 



Page | 741 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




the night — “He’s dead!” “He’s dead!” “Cedric Diggory! 
Dead).” 



“Harry, let go of him,” he heard Fudge’s voice say, and 
he felt fingers trying to pry him from Cedric’s limp 
body, but Harry wouldn’t let him go. Then 
Dumbledore’s face, which was still blurred and 
misted, came closer. 

“Harry, you can’t help him now. It’s over. Let go.” 

“He wanted me to bring him back,” Harry muttered — 
it seemed important to explain this. “He wanted me to 
bring him back to his parents. ...” 

“That’s right, Harry ... just let go now. ...” 

Dumbledore bent down, and with extraordinary 
strength for a man so old and thin, raised Harry from 
the ground and set him on his feet. Harry swayed. His 
head was pounding. His injured leg would no longer 
support his weight. The crowd around them jostled, 
fighting to get closer, pressing darkly in on him — 
“What’s happened?” “What’s wrong with him?” 

“Dig gory’s dead\” 

“He’ll need to go to the hospital wing!” Fudge was 
saying loudly. “He’s ill, he’s injured — Dumbledore, 
Diggory’s parents, they’re here, they’re in the stands. 



“I’ll take Harry, Dumbledore, I’ll take him — ” 

“No, I would prefer — ” 

“Dumbledore, Amos Diggory’s running ... he’s coming 
over. ... Don’t you think you should tell him — before 
he sees — ?” 

Page | 742 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry, stay here — ” 



Girls were screaming, sobbing hysterically. . . . The 
scene flickered oddly before Harry’s eyes. ... 

“It’s all right, son, I’ve got you ... come on ... hospital 
wing ...” 

“Dumbledore said stay,” said Harry thickly, the 
pounding in his scar making him feel as though he 
was about to throw up; his vision was blurring worse 
than ever. 

“You need to lie down. ... Come on now. ...” 

Someone larger and stronger than he was was half 
pulling, half carrying him through the frightened 
crowd. Harry heard people gasping, screaming, and 
shouting as the man supporting him pushed a path 
through them, taking him back to the castle. Across 
the lawn, past the lake and the Durmstrang ship, 
Harry heard nothing but the heavy breathing of the 
man helping him walk. 

“What happened, Harry?” the man asked at last as he 
lifted Harry up the stone steps. Clunk. Clunk. Clunk. 

It was Mad-Eye Moody. 

“Cup was a Portkey,” said Harry as they crossed the 
entrance hall. “Took me and Cedric to a graveyard ... 
and Voldemort was there ... Lord Voldemort ...” 

Clunk. Clunk. Clunk. Up the marble stairs ... 

“The Dark Lord was there? What happened then?” 

“Killed Cedric ... they killed Cedric. ...” 

“And then?” 

Page | 743 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Clunk. Clunk. Clunk. Along the corridor . . . 

“Made a potion ... got his body back. ...” 

“The Dark Lord got his body back? He’s returned?” 
“And the Death Eaters came ... and then we dueled. 



“You dueled with the Dark Lord?” 

“Got away . . . my wand . . . did something funny. ... I 
saw my mum and dad ... they came out of his wand. 



“In here, Harry ... in here, and sit down. ... You’ll be 
all right now ... drink this. ...” 

Harry heard a key scrape in a lock and felt a cup 
being pushed into his hands. 

“Drink it ... you’ll feel better ... come on, now, Harry, I 
need to know exactly what happened. ...” 

Moody helped tip the stuff down Harry’s throat; he 
coughed, a peppery taste burning his throat. Moody’s 
office came into sharper focus, and so did Moody 
himself. ... He looked as white as Fudge had looked, 
and both eyes were fixed unblinkingly upon Harry’s 
face. 

“Voldemort’s back, Harry? You’re sure he’s back? How 
did he do it?” 

“He took stuff from his father’s grave, and from 
Wormtail, and me,” said Harry. His head felt clearer; 
his scar wasn’t hurting so badly; he could now see 
Moody’s face distinctly, even though the office was 



Page | 744 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




dark. He could still hear screaming and shouting 
from the distant Quidditch field. 



“What did the Dark Lord take from you?” said Moody. 

“Blood,” said Harry, raising his arm. His sleeve was 
ripped where Wormtail’s dagger had torn it. 

Moody let out his breath in a long, low hiss. 

“And the Death Eaters? They returned?” 

“Yes,” said Harry. “Loads of them ...” 

“How did he treat them?” Moody asked quietly. “Did 
he forgive them?” 

But Harry had suddenly remembered. He should have 
told Dumbledore, he should have said it straightaway 



“There’s a Death Eater at Hogwarts! There’s a Death 
Eater here — they put my name in the Goblet of Fire, 
they made sure I got through to the end — ” 

Harry tried to get up, but Moody pushed him back 
down. 

“I know who the Death Eater is,” he said quietly. 

“Karkaroff?” said Harry wildly. “Where is he? Have 
you got him? Is he locked up?” 

“Karkaroff?” said Moody with an odd laugh. 

“Karkaroff fled tonight, when he felt the Dark Mark 
burn upon his arm. He betrayed too many faithful 
supporters of the Dark Lord to wish to meet them . . . 
but I doubt he will get far. The Dark Lord has ways of 
tracking his enemies.” 

Page | 745 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Karkaroff’s gone? He ran away? But then — he didn’t 
put my name in the goblet?” 



“No,” said Moody slowly. “No, he didn’t. It was I who 
did that.” 

Harry heard, but didn’t believe. 

“No, you didn’t,” he said. “You didn’t do that ... you 
can’t have done ...” 

“I assure you I did,” said Moody, and his magical eye 
swung around and fixed upon the door, and Harry 
knew he was making sure that there was no one 
outside it. At the same time, Moody drew out his 
wand and pointed it at Harry. 

“He forgave them, then?” he said. “The Death Eaters 
who went free? The ones who escaped Azkaban?” 

“What?” said Harry. 

He was looking at the wand Moody was pointing at 
him. This was a bad joke, it had to be. 

“I asked you,” said Moody quietly, “whether he forgave 
the scum who never even went to look for him. Those 
treacherous cowards who wouldn’t even brave 
Azkaban for him. The faithless, worthless bits of filth 
who were brave enough to cavort in masks at the 
Quidditch World Cup, but fled at the sight of the Dark 
Mark when I fired it into the sky.” 

“ You fired . . . What are you talking about ... ?” 

“I told you, Harry ... I told you. If there’s one thing I 
hate more than any other, it’s a Death Eater who 
walked free. They turned their backs on my master 
when he needed them most. I expected him to punish 

Page | 746 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




them. I expected him to torture them. Tell me he hurt 
them, Harry. ...” Moody’s face was suddenly lit with 
an insane smile. “Tell me he told them that I, I alone 
remained faithful . . . prepared to risk everything to 
deliver to him the one thing he wanted above all ... 
you.” 

“You didn’t ... it — it can’t be you. ...” 

“Who put your name in the Goblet of Fire, under the 
name of a different school? I did. Who frightened off 
every person I thought might try to hurt you or 
prevent you from winning the tournament? I did. Who 
nudged Hagrid into showing you the dragons? I did. 
Who helped you see the only way you could beat the 
dragon? I did.” 

Moody’s magical eye had now left the door. It was 
fixed upon Harry. His lopsided mouth leered more 
widely than ever. 

“It hasn’t been easy, Harry, guiding you through these 
tasks without arousing suspicion. I have had to use 
every ounce of cunning I possess, so that my hand 
would not be detectable in your success. Dumbledore 
would have been very suspicious if you had managed 
everything too easily. As long as you got into that 
maze, preferably with a decent head start — then, I 
knew, I would have a chance of getting rid of the 
other champions and leaving your way clear. But I 
also had to contend with your stupidity. The second 
task . . . that was when I was most afraid we would 
fail. I was keeping watch on you, Potter. I knew you 
hadn’t worked out the egg’s clue, so I had to give you 
another hint — ” 

“You didn’t,” Harry said hoarsely. “Cedric gave me the 
clue — ” 



Page | 747 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Who told Cedric to open it underwater? I did. I 
trusted that he would pass the information on to you. 
Decent people are so easy to manipulate, Potter. I was 
sure Cedric would want to repay you for telling him 
about the dragons, and so he did. But even then, 
Potter, even then you seemed likely to fail. I was 
watching all the time ... all those hours in the library. 
Didn’t you realize that the book you needed was in 
your dormitory all along? I planted it there early on, I 
gave it to the Longbottom boy, don’t you remember? 
Magical Water Plants of the Mediterranean. It would 
have told you all you needed to know about gillyweed. 

I expected you to ask everyone and anyone you could 
for help. Longbottom would have told you in an 
instant. But you did not ... you did not. ... You have a 
streak of pride and independence that might have 
ruined all. 

“So what could I do? Feed you information from 
another innocent source. You told me at the Yule Ball 
a house-elf called Dobby had given you a Christmas 
present. I called the elf to the staffroom to collect 
some robes for cleaning. I staged a loud conversation 
with Professor McGonagall about the hostages who 
had been taken, and whether Potter would think to 
use gillyweed. And your little elf friend ran straight to 
Snape’s office and then hurried to find you. ...” 

Moody’s wand was still pointing directly at Harry’s 
heart. Over his shoulder, foggy shapes were moving in 
the Foe-Glass on the wall. 

“You were so long in that lake, Potter, I thought you 
had drowned. But luckily, Dumbledore took your 
idiocy for nobility, and marked you high for it. I 
breathed again. 

“You had an easier time of it than you should have in 
that maze tonight, of course,” said Moody. “I was 

Page | 748 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




patrolling around it, able to see through the outer 
hedges, able to curse many obstacles out of your way. 
I Stunned Fleur Delacour as she passed. I put the 
Imperius Curse on Krum, so that he would finish 
Diggory and leave your path to the cup clear.” 

Harry stared at Moody. He just didn’t see how this 
could be. ... Dumbledore’s friend, the famous Auror 
. . . the one who had caught so many Death Eaters . . . 

It made no sense ... no sense at all. ... 

The foggy shapes in the Foe-Glass were sharpening, 
had become more distinct. Harry could see the 
outlines of three people over Moody’s shoulder, 
moving closer and closer. But Moody wasn’t watching 
them. His magical eye was upon Harry. 

“The Dark Lord didn’t manage to kill you, Potter, and 
he so wanted to,” whispered Moody. “Imagine how he 
will reward me when he finds I have done it for him. I 
gave you to him — the thing he needed above all to 
regenerate — and then I killed you for him. I will be 
honored beyond all other Death Eaters. I will be his 
dearest, his closest supporter ... closer than a son. ...” 

Moody’s normal eye was bulging, the magical eye 
fixed upon Harry. The door was barred, and Harry 
knew he would never reach his own wand in time. ... 

“The Dark Lord and I,” said Moody, and he looked 
completely insane now, towering over Harry, leering 
down at him, “have much in common. Both of us, for 
instance, had very disappointing fathers ... very 
disappointing indeed. Both of us suffered the 
indignity, Harry, of being named after those fathers. 
And both of us had the pleasure . . . the very great 
pleasure ... of killing our fathers to ensure the 
continued rise of the Dark Order!” 



Page | 749 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“You’re mad,” Harry said — he couldn’t stop himself 
— “you’re mad!” 



“Mad, am I?” said Moody, his voice rising 
uncontrollably. “We’ll see! We’ll see who’s mad, now 
that the Dark Lord has returned, with me at his side! 
He is back, Harry Potter, you did not conquer him — 
and now — I conquer you!” 

Moody raised his wand, he opened his mouth; Harry 
plunged his own hand into his robes — 

“Stupefy\” There was a blinding flash of red light, and 
with a great splintering and crashing, the door of 
Moody’s office was blasted apart — 

Moody was thrown backward onto the office floor. 
Harry, still staring at the place where Moody’s face 
had been, saw Albus Dumbledore, Professor Snape, 
and Professor McGonagall looking back at him out of 
the Foe-Glass. He looked around and saw the three of 
them standing in the doorway, Dumbledore in front, 
his wand outstretched. 

At that moment, Harry fully understood for the first 
time why people said Dumbledore was the only wizard 
Voldemort had ever feared. The look upon 
Dumbledore ’s face as he stared down at the 
unconscious form of Mad-Eye Moody was more 
terrible than Harry could have ever imagined. There 
was no benign smile upon Dumbledore ’s face, no 
twinkle in the eyes behind the spectacles. There was 
cold fury in every line of the ancient face; a sense of 
power radiated from Dumbledore as though he were 
giving off burning heat. 

He stepped into the office, placed a foot underneath 
Moody’s unconscious body, and kicked him over onto 
his back, so that his face was visible. Snape followed 

Page | 750 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




him, looking into the Foe-Glass, where his own face 
was still visible, glaring into the room. Professor 
McGonagall went straight to Harry. 

“Come along, Potter,” she whispered. The thin line of 
her mouth was twitching as though she was about to 
cry. “Come along ... hospital wing ...” 

“No,” said Dumbledore sharply. 

“Dumbledore, he ought to — look at him — he’s been 
through enough tonight — ” 

“He will stay, Minerva, because he needs to 
understand,” said Dumbledore curtly. “Understanding 
is the first step to acceptance, and only with 
acceptance can there be recovery. He needs to know 
who has put him through the ordeal he has suffered 
tonight, and why.” 

“Moody,” Harry said. He was still in a state of 
complete disbelief. “How can it have been Moody?” 

“This is not Alastor Moody,” said Dumbledore quietly. 
“You have never known Alastor Moody. The real 
Moody would not have removed you from my sight 
after what happened tonight. The moment he took 
you, I knew — and I followed.” 

Dumbledore bent down over Moody’s limp form and 
put a hand inside his robes. He pulled out Moody’s 
hip flask and a set of keys on a ring. Then he turned 
to Professors McGonagall and Snape. 

“Severus, please fetch me the strongest Truth Potion 
you possess, and then go down to the kitchens and 
bring up the house-elf called Winky. Minerva, kindly 
go down to Hagrid’s house, where you will find a large 
black dog sitting in the pumpkin patch. Take the dog 
Page | 751 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




up to my office, tell him I will be with him shortly, 
then come back here.” 

If either Snape or McGonagall found these 
instructions peculiar, they hid their confusion. Both 
turned at once and left the office. Dumbledore walked 
over to the trunk with seven locks, fitted the first key 
in the lock, and opened it. It contained a mass of 
spell-books. Dumbledore closed the trunk, placed a 
second key in the second lock, and opened the trunk 
again. The spellbooks had vanished; this time it 
contained an assortment of broken Sneako-scopes, 
some parchment and quills, and what looked like a 
silvery Invisibility Cloak. Harry watched, astounded, 
as Dumbledore placed the third, fourth, fifth, and 
sixth keys in their respective locks, reopening the 
trunk, and each time revealing different contents. 
Then he placed the seventh key in the lock, threw 
open the lid, and Harry let out a cry of amazement. 

He was looking down into a kind of pit, an 
underground room, and lying on the floor some ten 
feet below, apparently fast asleep, thin and starved in 
appearance, was the real Mad-Eye Moody. His 
wooden leg was gone, the socket that should have 
held the magical eye looked empty beneath its lid, 
and chunks of his grizzled hair were missing. Harry 
stared, thunderstruck, between the sleeping Moody in 
the trunk and the unconscious Moody lying on the 
floor of the office. 

Dumbledore climbed into the trunk, lowered himself, 
and fell lightly onto the floor beside the sleeping 
Moody. He bent over him. 

“Stunned — controlled by the Imperius Curse — very 
weak,” he said. “Of course, they would have needed to 
keep him alive. Harry, throw down the imposter’s 



Page | 752 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




cloak — he’s freezing. Madam Pomfrey will need to see 
him, but he seems in no immediate danger.” 

Harry did as he was told; Dumbledore covered Moody 
in the cloak, tucked it around him, and clambered 
out of the trunk again. Then he picked up the hip 
flask that stood upon the desk, unscrewed it, and 
turned it over. A thick glutinous liquid splattered onto 
the office floor. 

“Polyjuice Potion, Harry,” said Dumbledore. “You see 
the simplicity of it, and the brilliance. For Moody 
never does drink except from his hip flask, he’s well 
known for it. The imposter needed, of course, to keep 
the real Moody close by, so that he could continue 
making the potion. You see his hair ...” Dumbledore 
looked down on the Moody in the trunk. “The 
imposter has been cutting it off all year, see where it 
is uneven? But I think, in the excitement of tonight, 
our fake Moody might have forgotten to take it as 
frequently as he should have done ... on the hour . . . 
every hour. ... We shall see.” 

Dumbledore pulled out the chair at the desk and sat 
down upon it, his eyes fixed upon the unconscious 
Moody on the floor. Harry stared at him too. Minutes 
passed in silence. ... 

Then, before Harry’s very eyes, the face of the man on 
the floor began to change. The scars were 
disappearing, the skin was becoming smooth; the 
mangled nose became whole and started to shrink. 
The long mane of grizzled gray hair was withdrawing 
into the scalp and turning the color of straw. 
Suddenly, with a loud clunk, the wooden leg fell away 
as a normal leg regrew in its place; next moment, the 
magical eyeball had popped out of the man’s face as a 
real eye replaced it; it rolled away across the floor and 
continued to swivel in every direction. 

Page | 753 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Harry saw a man lying before him, pale-skinned, 
slightly freckled, with a mop of fair hair. He knew who 
he was. He had seen him in Dumbledore’s Pensieve, 
had watched him being led away from court by the 
dementors, trying to convince Mr. Crouch that he was 
innocent . . . but he was lined around the eyes now 
and looked much older. . . . 

There were hurried footsteps outside in the corridor. 
Snape had returned with Winky at his heels. 

Professor McGonagall was right behind them. 

“Crouch!” Snape said, stopping dead in the doorway. 
“Barty Crouch!” 

“Good heavens,” said Professor McGonagall, stopping 
dead and staring down at the man on the floor. 

Filthy, disheveled, Winky peered around Snape’s legs. 
Her mouth opened wide and she let out a piercing 
shriek. 

“Master Barty, Master Barty, what is you doing here?” 

She flung herself forward onto the young man’s chest. 

“You is killed him! You is killed him! You is killed 
Master’s son!” 

“He is simply Stunned, Winky,” said Dumbledore. 
“Step aside, please. Severus, you have the potion?” 

Snape handed Dumbledore a small glass bottle of 
completely clear liquid: the Veritaserum with which 
he had threatened Harry in class. Dumbledore got up, 
bent over the man on the floor, and pulled him into a 
sitting position against the wall beneath the Foe- 
Glass, in which the reflections of Dumbledore, Snape, 
and McGonagall were still glaring down upon them 
Page | 754 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




all. Winky remained on her knees, trembling, her 
hands over her face. Dumbledore forced the man’s 
mouth open and poured three drops inside it. Then 
he pointed his wand at the man’s chest and said, 
“Rennervate.” 

Crouch’s son opened his eyes. His face was slack, his 
gaze unfocused. Dumbledore knelt before him, so that 
their faces were level. 

“Can you hear me?” Dumbledore asked quietly. 

The man’s eyelids flickered. 

“Yes,” he muttered. 

“I would like you to tell us,” said Dumbledore softly, 
“how you came to be here. How did you escape from 
Azkaban?” 

Crouch took a deep, shuddering breath, then began 
to speak in a flat, expressionless voice. 

“My mother saved me. She knew she was dying. She 
persuaded my father to rescue me as a last favor to 
her. He loved her as he had never loved me. He 
agreed. They came to visit me. They gave me a draft of 
Polyjuice Potion containing one of my mother’s hairs. 
She took a draft of Polyjuice Potion containing one of 
my hairs. We took on each other’s appearance.” 

Winky was shaking her head, trembling. 

“Say no more, Master Barty, say no more, you is 
getting your father into trouble!” 

But Crouch took another deep breath and continued 
in the same flat voice. 



Page | 755 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“The dementors are blind. They sensed one healthy, 
one dying person entering Azkaban. They sensed one 
healthy, one dying person leaving it. My father 
smuggled me out, disguised as my mother, in case 
any prisoners were watching through their doors. 

“My mother died a short while afterward in Azkaban. 
She was careful to drink Polyjuice Potion until the 
end. She was buried under my name and bearing my 
appearance. Everyone believed her to be me.” 

The man’s eyelids flickered. 

“And what did your father do with you, when he had 
got you home?” said Dumbledore quietly. 

“Staged my mother’s death. A quiet, private funeral. 
That grave is empty. The house-elf nursed me back to 
health. Then I had to be concealed. I had to be 
controlled. My father had to use a number of spells to 
subdue me. When I had recovered my strength, I 
thought only of finding my master ... of returning to 
his service.” 

“How did your father subdue you?” said Dumbledore. 

“The Imperius Curse,” Crouch said. “I was under my 
father’s control. I was forced to wear an Invisibility 
Cloak day and night. I was always with the house-elf. 
She was my keeper and caretaker. She pitied me. She 
persuaded my father to give me occasional treats. 
Rewards for my good behavior.” 

“Master Barty, Master Barty,” sobbed Winky through 
her hands. “You isn’t ought to tell them, we is getting 
in trouble. ...” 



Page | 756 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Did anybody ever discover that you were still alive?” 
said Dumbledore softly. “Did anyone know except 
your father and the house-elf?” 

“Yes,” said Crouch, his eyelids flickering again. “A 
witch in my father’s office. Bertha Jorkins. She came 
to the house with papers for my father’s signature. He 
was not at home. Winky showed her inside and 
returned to the kitchen, to me. But Bertha Jorkins 
heard Winky talking to me. She came to investigate. 
She heard enough to guess who was hiding under the 
Invisibility Cloak. My father arrived home. She 
confronted him. He put a very powerful Memory 
Charm on her to make her forget what she’d found 
out. Too powerful. He said it damaged her memory 
permanently.” 

“Why is she coming to nose into my master’s private 
business?” sobbed Winky. “Why isn’t she leaving us 
be?” 

“Tell me about the Quidditch World Cup,” said 
Dumbledore. 

“Winky talked my father into it,” said Crouch, still in 
the same monotonous voice. “She spent months 
persuading him. I had not left the house for years. I 
had loved Quidditch. Let him go, she said. He will be 
in his Invisibility Cloak. He can watch. Let him smell 
fresh air for once. She said my mother would have 
wanted it. She told my father that my mother had 
died to give me freedom. She had not saved me for a 
life of imprisonment. He agreed in the end. 

“It was carefully planned. My father led me and Winky 
up to the Top Box early in the day. Winky was to say 
that she was saving a seat for my father. I was to sit 
there, invisible. When everyone had left the box, we 



Page | 757 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




would emerge. Winky would appear to be alone. 
Nobody would ever know. 

“But Winky didn’t know that I was growing stronger. I 
was starting to fight my father’s Imperius Curse. 

There were times when I was almost myself again. 
There were brief periods when I seemed outside his 
control. It happened, there, in the Top Box. It was like 
waking from a deep sleep. I found myself out in 
public, in the middle of the match, and I saw, in front 
of me, a wand sticking out of a boy’s pocket. I had not 
been allowed a wand since before Azkaban. I stole it. 
Winky didn’t know. Winky is frightened of heights. 

She had her face hidden.” 

“Master Barty, you bad boy!” whispered Winky, tears 
trickling between her fingers. 

“So you took the wand,” said Dumbledore, “and what 
did you do with it?” 

“We went back to the tent,” said Crouch. “Then we 
heard them. We heard the Death Eaters. The ones 
who had never been to Azkaban. The ones who had 
never suffered for my master. They had turned their 
backs on him. They were not enslaved, as I was. They 
were free to seek him, but they did not. They were 
merely making sport of Muggles. The sound of their 
voices awoke me. My mind was clearer than it had 
been in years. I was angry. I had the wand. I wanted 
to attack them for their disloyalty to my master. My 
father had left the tent; he had gone to free the 
Muggles. Winky was afraid to see me so angry. She 
used her own brand of magic to bind me to her. She 
pulled me from the tent, pulled me into the forest, 
away from the Death Eaters. I tried to hold her back. I 
wanted to return to the campsite. I wanted to show 
those Death Eaters what loyalty to the Dark Lord 



Page | 758 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




meant, and to punish them for their lack of it. I used 
the stolen wand to cast the Dark Mark into the sky. 

“Ministry wizards arrived. They shot Stunning Spells 
everywhere. One of the spells came through the trees 
where Winky and I stood. The bond connecting us 
was broken. We were both Stunned. 

“When Winky was discovered, my father knew I must 
be nearby. He searched the bushes where she had 
been found and felt me lying there. He waited until 
the other Ministry members had left the forest. He put 
me back under the Imperius Curse and took me 
home. He dismissed Winky. She had failed him. She 
had let me acquire a wand. She had almost let me 
escape.” 

Winky let out a wail of despair. 

“Now it was just Father and I, alone in the house. And 
then ... and then ...” Crouch’s head rolled on his 
neck, and an insane grin spread across his face. “My 
master came for me. 

“He arrived at our house late one night in the arms of 
his servant Wormtail. My master had found out that I 
was still alive. He had captured Bertha Jorkins in 
Albania. He had tortured her. She told him a great 
deal. She told him about the Triwizard Tournament. 
She told him the old Auror, Moody, was going to teach 
at Hogwarts. He tortured her until he broke through 
the Memory Charm my father had placed upon her. 
She told him I had escaped from Azkaban. She told 
him my father kept me imprisoned to prevent me from 
seeking my master. And so my master knew that I 
was still his faithful servant — perhaps the most 
faithful of all. My master conceived a plan, based 
upon the information Bertha had given him. He 



Page | 759 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




needed me. He arrived at our house near midnight. 

My father answered the door.” 

The smile spread wider over Crouch’s face, as though 
recalling the sweetest memory of his life. Winky’s 
petrified brown eyes were visible through her fingers. 
She seemed too appalled to speak. 

“It was very quick. My father was placed under the 
Imperius Curse by my master. Now my father was the 
one imprisoned, controlled. My master forced him to 
go about his business as usual, to act as though 
nothing was wrong. And I was released. I awoke. I 
was myself again, alive as I hadn’t been in years.” 

“And what did Lord Voldemort ask you to do?” said 
Dumbledore. 

“He asked me whether I was ready to risk everything 
for him. I was ready. It was my dream, my greatest 
ambition, to serve him, to prove myself to him. He 
told me he needed to place a faithful servant at 
Hogwarts. A servant who would guide Harry Potter 
through the Triwizard Tournament without appearing 
to do so. A servant who would watch over Harry 
Potter. Ensure he reached the Triwizard Cup. Turn 
the cup into a Portkey, which would take the first 
person to touch it to my master. But first — ” 

“You needed Alastor Moody,” said Dumbledore. His 
blue eyes were blazing, though his voice remained 
calm. 

“Wormtail and I did it. We had prepared the Polyjuice 
Potion beforehand. We journeyed to his house. Moody 
put up a struggle. There was a commotion. We 
managed to subdue him just in time. Forced him into 
a compartment of his own magical trunk. Took some 
of his hair and added it to the potion. I drank it; I 
Page | 760 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




became Moody’s double. I took his leg and his eye. I 
was ready to face Arthur Weasley when he arrived to 
sort out the Muggles who had heard a disturbance. I 
made the dustbins move around the yard. I told 
Arthur Weasley I had heard intruders in my yard, 
who had set off the dustbins. Then I packed up 
Moody’s clothes and Dark detectors, put them in the 
trunk with Moody, and set off for Hogwarts. I kept 
him alive, under the Imperius Curse. I wanted to be 
able to question him. To find out about his past, learn 
his habits, so that I could fool even Dumbledore. I 
also needed his hair to make the Polyjuice Potion. The 
other ingredients were easy. I stole boom-slang skin 
from the dungeons. When the Potions master found 
me in his office, I said I was under orders to search 
it.” 

“And what became of Wormtail after you attacked 
Moody?” said Dumbledore. 

“Wormtail returned to care for my master, in my 
father’s house, and to keep watch over my father.” 

“But your father escaped,” said Dumbledore. 

“Yes. After a while he began to fight the Imperius 
Curse just as I had done. There were periods when he 
knew what was happening. My master decided it was 
no longer safe for my father to leave the house. He 
forced him to send letters to the Ministry instead. He 
made him write and say he was ill. But Wormtail 
neglected his duty. He was not watchful enough. My 
father escaped. My master guessed that he was 
heading for Hogwarts. My father was going to tell 
Dumbledore everything, to confess. He was going to 
admit that he had smuggled me from Azkaban. 

“My master sent me word of my father’s escape. He 
told me to stop him at all costs. So I waited and 

Page | 761 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




watched. I used the map I had taken from Harry 
Potter. The map that had almost mined everything.” 

“Map?” said Dumbledore quickly. “What map is this?” 

“Potter’s map of Hogwarts. Potter saw me on it. Potter 
saw me stealing more ingredients for the Polyjuice 
Potion from Snape’s office one night. He thought I was 
my father. We have the same first name. I took the 
map from Potter that night. I told him my father 
hated Dark wizards. Potter believed my father was 
after Snape. 

“For a week I waited for my father to arrive at 
Hogwarts. At last, one evening, the map showed my 
father entering the grounds. I pulled on my Invisibility 
Cloak and went down to meet him. He was walking 
around the edge of the forest. Then Potter came, and 
Krum. I waited. I could not hurt Potter; my master 
needed him. Potter ran to get Dumbledore. I Stunned 
Krum. I killed my father.” 

“iVoooo!” wailed Winky. “Master Barty, Master Barty, 
what is you saying?” 

“You killed your father,” Dumbledore said, in the 
same soft voice. “What did you do with the body?” 

“Carried it into the forest. Covered it with the 
Invisibility Cloak. I had the map with me. I watched 
Potter run into the castle. He met Snape. Dumbledore 
joined them. I watched Potter bringing Dumbledore 
out of the castle. I walked back out of the forest, 
doubled around behind them, went to meet them. I 
told Dumbledore Snape had told me where to come. 

“Dumbledore told me to go and look for my father. I 
went back to my father’s body. Watched the map. 
When everyone was gone, I Transfigured my father’s 

Page | 762 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




body. He became a bone ... I buried it, while wearing 
the Invisibility Cloak, in the freshly dug earth in front 
of Hagrid’s cabin.” 

There was complete silence now, except for Winky’s 
continued sobs. Then Dumbledore said, “And tonight 



“I offered to carry the Triwizard Cup into the maze 
before dinner,” whispered Barty Crouch. “Turned it 
into a Portkey. My master’s plan worked. He is 
returned to power and I will be honored by him 
beyond the dreams of wizards.” 

The insane smile lit his features once more, and his 
head drooped onto his shoulder as Winky wailed and 
sobbed at his side. 



Page | 763 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






THE PARTING OF THE WAYS 

Dumbledore stood up. He stared down at Barty 
Crouch for a moment with disgust on his face. Then 
he raised his wand once more and ropes flew out of it, 
ropes that twisted themselves around Barty Crouch, 
binding him tightly. He turned to Professor 
McGonagall. 

“Minerva, could I ask you to stand guard here while I 
take Harry upstairs?” 

“Of course,” said Professor McGonagall. She looked 
slightly nauseous, as though she had just watched 
someone being sick. However, when she drew out her 
wand and pointed it at Barty Crouch, her hand was 
quite steady. 

“Severus” — Dumbledore turned to Snape — “please 
tell Madam Pomfrey to come down here; we need to 
get Alastor Moody into the hospital wing. Then go 
down into the grounds, find Cornelius Fudge, and 
bring him up to this office. He will undoubtedly want 



Page | 764 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



to question Crouch himself. Tell him I will be in the 
hospital wing in half an hour’s time if he needs me.” 

Snape nodded silently and swept out of the room. 

“Harry?” Dumbledore said gently. 

Harry got up and swayed again; the pain in his leg, 
which he had not noticed all the time he had been 
listening to Crouch, now returned in full measure. He 
also realized that he was shaking. Dumbledore 
gripped his arm and helped him out into the dark 
corridor. 

“I want you to come up to my office first, Harry,” he 
said quietly as they headed up the passageway. 

“Sirius is waiting for us there.” 

Harry nodded. A kind of numbness and a sense of 
complete unreality were upon him, but he did not 
care; he was even glad of it. He didn’t want to have to 
think about anything that had happened since he had 
first touched the Triwizard Cup. He didn’t want to 
have to examine the memories, fresh and sharp as 
photographs, which kept flashing across his mind. 
Mad-Eye Moody, inside the trunk. Wormtail, slumped 
on the ground, cradling his stump of an arm. 
Voldemort, rising from the steaming cauldron. Cedric 
. . . dead . . . Cedric, asking to be returned to his 
parents. ... 

“Professor,” Harry mumbled, “where are Mr. and Mrs. 
Diggory?” 

“They are with Professor Sprout,” said Dumbledore. 
His voice, which had been so calm throughout the 
interrogation of Barty Crouch, shook very slightly for 
the first time. “She was Head of Cedric’s house, and 
knew him best.” 

Page | 765 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




They had reached the stone gargoyle. Dumbledore 
gave the password, it sprang aside, and he and Harry 
went up the moving spiral staircase to the oak door. 
Dumbledore pushed it open. Sirius was standing 
there. His face was white and gaunt as it had been 
when he had escaped Azkaban. In one swift moment, 
he had crossed the room. 

“Harry, are you all right? I knew it — I knew 
something like this — what happened?” 

His hands shook as he helped Harry into a chair in 
front of the desk. 

“What happened?” he asked more urgently. 

Dumbledore began to tell Sirius everything Barty 
Crouch had said. Harry was only half listening. So 
tired every bone in his body was aching, he wanted 
nothing more than to sit here, undisturbed, for hours 
and hours, until he fell asleep and didn’t have to 
think or feel anymore. 

There was a soft rush of wings. Fawkes the phoenix 
had left his perch, flown across the office, and landed 
on Harry’s knee. 

“ ’Lo, Fawkes,” said Harry quietly. He stroked the 
phoenix’s beautiful scarlet-and-gold plumage. Fawkes 
blinked peacefully up at him. There was something 
comforting about his warm weight. 

Dumbledore stopped talking. He sat down opposite 
Harry, behind his desk. He was looking at Harry, who 
avoided his eyes. Dumbledore was going to question 
him. He was going to make Harry relive everything. 

“I need to know what happened after you touched the 
Portkey in the maze, Harry,” said Dumbledore. 

Page | 766 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“We can leave that till morning, can’t we, 
Dumbledore?” said Sirius harshly. He had put a hand 
on Harry’s shoulder. “Let him have a sleep. Let him 
rest.” 

Harry felt a rush of gratitude toward Sirius, but 
Dumbledore took no notice of Sirius’s words. He 
leaned forward toward Harry. Very unwillingly, Harry 
raised his head and looked into those blue eyes. 

“If I thought I could help you,” Dumbledore said 
gently, “by putting you into an enchanted sleep and 
allowing you to postpone the moment when you 
would have to think about what has happened 
tonight, I would do it. But I know better. Numbing the 
pain for a while will make it worse when you finally 
feel it. You have shown bravery beyond anything I 
could have expected of you. I ask you to demonstrate 
your courage one more time. I ask you to tell us what 
happened.” 

The phoenix let out one soft, quavering note. It 
shivered in the air, and Harry felt as though a drop of 
hot liquid had slipped down his throat into his 
stomach, warming him, and strengthening him. 

He took a deep breath and began to tell them. As he 
spoke, visions of everything that had passed that 
night seemed to rise before his eyes; he saw the 
sparkling surface of the potion that had revived 
Voldemort; he saw the Death Eaters Apparating 
between the graves around them; he saw Cedric’s 
body, lying on the ground beside the cup. 

Once or twice, Sirius made a noise as though about to 
say something, his hand still tight on Harry’s 
shoulder, but Dumbledore raised his hand to stop 
him, and Harry was glad of this, because it was easier 
to keep going now he had started. It was even a relief; 
Page | 767 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




he felt almost as though something poisonous were 
being extracted from him. It was costing him every bit 
of determination he had to keep talking, yet he sensed 
that once he had finished, he would feel better. 

When Harry told of Wormtail piercing his arm with 
the dagger, however, Sirius let out a vehement 
exclamation and Dumbledore stood up so quickly that 
Harry started. Dumbledore walked around the desk 
and told Harry to stretch out his arm. Harry showed 
them both the place where his robes were torn and 
the cut beneath them. 

“He said my blood would make him stronger than if 
he’d used someone else’s,” Harry told Dumbledore. 

“He said the protection my — my mother left in me — 
he’d have it too. And he was right — he could touch 
me without hurting himself, he touched my face.” 

For a fleeting instant, Harry thought he saw a gleam 
of something like triumph in Dumbledore ’s eyes. But 
next second, Harry was sure he had imagined it, for 
when Dumbledore had returned to his seat behind 
the desk, he looked as old and weary as Harry had 
ever seen him. 

“Very well,” he said, sitting down again. “Voldemort 
has overcome that particular barrier. Harry, continue, 
please.” 

Harry went on; he explained how Voldemort had 
emerged from the cauldron, and told them all he 
could remember of Voldemort’s speech to the Death 
Eaters. Then he told how Voldemort had untied him, 
returned his wand to him, and prepared to duel. 

But when he reached the part where the golden beam 
of light had connected his and Voldemort’s wands, he 
found his throat obstructed. He tried to keep talking, 

Page | 768 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




but the memories of what had come out of 
Voldemort’s wand were flooding into his mind. He 
could see Cedric emerging, see the old man, Bertha 
Jorkins ... his father ... his mother ... 

He was glad when Sirius broke the silence. 

“The wands connected?” he said, looking from Harry 
to Dumbledore. “Why?” 

Harry looked up at Dumbledore again, on whose face 
there was an arrested look. 

“Priori Incantatem,” he muttered. 

His eyes gazed into Harry’s and it was almost as 
though an invisible beam of understanding shot 
between them. 

“The Reverse Spell effect?” said Sirius sharply. 

“Exactly,” said Dumbledore. “Harry’s wand and 
Voldemort’s wand share cores. Each of them contains 
a feather from the tail of the same phoenix. This 
phoenix, in fact,” he added, and he pointed at the 
scarlet-and-gold bird, perching peacefully on Harry’s 
knee. 

“My wand’s feather came from Fawkes?” Harry said, 
amazed. 

“Yes,” said Dumbledore. “Mr. Ollivander wrote to tell 
me you had bought the second wand, the moment 
you left his shop four years ago.” 

“So what happens when a wand meets its brother?” 
said Sirius. 



Page | 769 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“They will not work properly against each other,” said 
Dumbledore. “If, however, the owners of the wands 
force the wands to do battle ... a very rare effect will 
take place. One of the wands will force the other to 
regurgitate spells it has performed — in reverse. The 
most recent first ... and then those which preceded it. 



He looked interrogatively at Harry, and Harry nodded. 

“Which means,” said Dumbledore slowly, his eyes 
upon Harry’s face, “that some form of Cedric must 
have reappeared.” 

Harry nodded again. 

“Diggory came back to life?” said Sirius sharply. 

“No spell can reawaken the dead,” said Dumbledore 
heavily. “All that would have happened is a kind of 
reverse echo. A shadow of the living Cedric would 
have emerged from the wand . . . am I correct, Harry?” 

“He spoke to me,” Harry said. He was suddenly 
shaking again. “The ... the ghost Cedric, or whatever 
he was, spoke.” 

“An echo,” said Dumbledore, “which retained Cedric’s 
appearance and character. I am guessing other such 
forms appeared ... less recent victims of Voldemort’s 
wand. ...” 

“An old man,” Harry said, his throat still constricted. 
“Bertha Jorkins. And ...” 

“Your parents?” said Dumbledore quietly. 

“Yes,” said Harry. 



Page | 770 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Sirius’s grip on Harry’s shoulder was now so tight it 
was painful. 

“The last murders the wand performed,” said 
Dumbledore, nodding. “In reverse order. More would 
have appeared, of course, had you maintained the 
connection. Very well, Harry, these echoes, these 
shadows . . . what did they do?” 

Harry described how the figures that had emerged 
from the wand had prowled the edges of the golden 
web, how Voldemort had seemed to fear them, how 
the shadow of Harry’s father had told him what to do, 
how Cedric’s had made its final request. 

At this point, Harry found he could not continue. He 
looked around at Sirius and saw that he had his face 
in his hands. 

Harry suddenly became aware that Fawkes had left 
his knee. The phoenix had fluttered to the floor. It 
was resting its beautiful head against Harry’s injured 
leg, and thick, pearly tears were falling from its eyes 
onto the wound left by the spider. The pain vanished. 
The skin mended. His leg was repaired. 

“I will say it again,” said Dumbledore as the phoenix 
rose into the air and resettled itself upon the perch 
beside the door. “You have shown bravery beyond 
anything I could have expected of you tonight, Harry. 
You have shown bravery equal to those who died 
fighting Voldemort at the height of his powers. You 
have shouldered a grown wizard’s burden and found 
yourself equal to it — and you have now given us all 
that we have a right to expect. You will come with me 
to the hospital wing. I do not want you returning to 
the dormitory tonight. A Sleeping Potion, and some 
peace ... Sirius, would you like to stay with him?” 



Page | 771 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Sirius nodded and stood up. He transformed back 
into the great black dog and walked with Harry and 
Dumbledore out of the office, accompanying them 
down a flight of stairs to the hospital wing. 

When Dumbledore pushed open the door, Harry saw 
Mrs. Weasley, Bill, Ron, and Hermione grouped 
around a harassed-looking Madam Pomfrey. They 
appeared to be demanding to know where Harry was 
and what had happened to him. All of them whipped 
around as Harry, Dumbledore, and the black dog 
entered, and Mrs. Weasley let out a kind of muffled 
scream. 

“Harry! Oh Harry!” 

She started to hurry toward him, but Dumbledore 
moved between them. 

“Molly,” he said, holding up a hand, “please listen to 
me for a moment. Harry has been through a terrible 
ordeal tonight. He has just had to relive it for me. 
What he needs now is sleep, and peace, and quiet. If 
he would like you all to stay with him,” he added, 
looking around at Ron, Hermione, and Bill too, “you 
may do so. But I do not want you questioning him 
until he is ready to answer, and certainly not this 
evening.” 

Mrs. Weasley nodded. She was very white. She 
rounded on Ron, Hermione, and Bill as though they 
were being noisy, and hissed, “Did you hear? He 
needs quiet!” 

“Headmaster,” said Madam Pomfrey, staring at the 
great black dog that was Sirius, “may I ask what — ?” 

“This dog will be remaining with Harry for a while,” 
said Dumbledore simply. “I assure you, he is 

Page | 772 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




extremely well trained. Harry — I will wait while you 
get into bed.” 

Harry felt an inexpressible sense of gratitude to 
Dumbledore for asking the others not to question 
him. It wasn’t as though he didn’t want them there; 
but the thought of explaining it all over again, the 
idea of reliving it one more time, was more than he 
could stand. 

“I will be back to see you as soon as I have met with 
Fudge, Harry,” said Dumbledore. “I would like you to 
remain here tomorrow until I have spoken to the 
school.” He left. 

As Madam Pomfrey led Harry to a nearby bed, he 
caught sight of the real Moody lying motionless in a 
bed at the far end of the room. His wooden leg and 
magical eye were lying on the bedside table. 

“Is he okay?” Harry asked. 

“He’ll be fine,” said Madam Pomfrey, giving Harry 
some pajamas and pulling screens around him. He 
took off his robes, pulled on the pajamas, and got into 
bed. Ron, Hermione, Bill, Mrs. Weasley, and the black 
dog came around the screen and settled themselves 
in chairs on either side of him. Ron and Hermione 
were looking at him almost cautiously, as though 
scared of him. 

“I’m all right,” he told them. “Just tired.” 

Mrs. Weasley’s eyes filled with tears as she smoothed 
his bedcovers unnecessarily. 

Madam Pomfrey, who had bustled off to her office, 
returned holding a small bottle of some purple potion 
and a goblet. 

Page | 773 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“You’ll need to drink all of this, Harry,” she said. “It’s 
a potion for dreamless sleep.” 

Harry took the goblet and drank a few mouthfuls. He 
felt himself becoming drowsy at once. Everything 
around him became hazy; the lamps around the 
hospital wing seemed to be winking at him in a 
friendly way through the screen around his bed; his 
body felt as though it was sinking deeper into the 
warmth of the feather matress. Before he could finish 
the potion, before he could say another word, his 
exhaustion had carried him off to sleep. 

Harry woke up, so warm, so very sleepy, that he 
didn’t open his eyes, wanting to drop off again. The 
room was still dimly lit; he was sure it was still 
nighttime and had a feeling that he couldn’t have 
been asleep very long. 

Then he heard whispering around him. 

“They’ll wake him if they don’t shut up!” 

“What are they shouting about? Nothing else can 
have happened, can it?” 

Harry opened his eyes blearily Someone had removed 
his glasses. He could see the fuzzy outlines of Mrs. 
Weasley and Bill close by. Mrs. Weasley was on her 
feet. 

“That’s Fudge’s voice,” she whispered. “And that’s 
Minerva McGonagall’s, isn’t it? But what are they 
arguing about?” 

Now Harry could hear them too: people shouting and 
running toward the hospital wing. 



Page | 774 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Regrettable, but all the same, Minerva — ” Cornelius 
Fudge was saying loudly. 

“You should never have brought it inside the castle!” 
yelled Professor McGonagall. “When Dumbledore 
finds out — ” 

Harry heard the hospital doors burst open. Unnoticed 
by any of the people around his bed, all of whom were 
staring at the door as Bill pulled back the screens, 
Harry sat up and put his glasses back on. 

Fudge came striding up the ward. Professors 
McGonagall and Snape were at his heels. 

“Where’s Dumbledore?” Fudge demanded of Mrs. 
Weasley. 

“He’s not here,” said Mrs. Weasley angrily. “This is a 
hospital wing, Minister, don’t you think you’d do 
better to — ” 

But the door opened, and Dumbledore came sweeping 
up the ward. 

“What has happened?” said Dumbledore sharply, 
looking from Fudge to Professor McGonagall. “Why 
are you disturbing these people? Minerva, I’m 
surprised at you — I asked you to stand guard over 
Barty Crouch — ” 

“There is no need to stand guard over him anymore, 
Dumbledore!” she shrieked. “The Minister has seen to 
that!” 

Harry had never seen Professor McGonagall lose 
control like this. There were angry blotches of color in 
her cheeks, and her hands were balled into fists; she 
was trembling with fury. 

Page | 775 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“When we told Mr. Fudge that we had caught the 
Death Eater responsible for tonight’s events,” said 
Snape, in a low voice, “he seemed to feel his personal 
safety was in question. He insisted on summoning a 
dementor to accompany him into the castle. He 
brought it up to the office where Barty Crouch — ” 

“I told him you would not agree, Dumbledore!” 
Professor McGonagall fumed. “I told him you would 
never allow dementors to set foot inside the castle, 
but — ” 

“My dear woman!” roared Fudge, who likewise looked 
angrier than Harry had ever seen him, “as Minister of 
Magic, it is my decision whether I wish to bring 
protection with me when interviewing a possibly 
dangerous — ” 

But Professor McGonagall’s voice drowned Fudge’s. 

“The moment that — that thing entered the room,” 
she screamed, pointing at Fudge, trembling all over, 
“it swooped down on Crouch and — and — ” 

Harry felt a chill in his stomach as Professor 
McGonagall struggled to find words to describe what 
had happened. He did not need her to finish her 
sentence. He knew what the dementor must have 
done. It had administered its fatal kiss to Barty 
Crouch. It had sucked his soul out through his 
mouth. He was worse than dead. 

“By all accounts, he is no loss!” blustered Fudge. “It 
seems he has been responsible for several deaths!” 

“But he cannot now give testimony, Cornelius,” said 
Dumbledore. He was staring hard at Fudge, as 
though seeing him plainly for the first time. “He 



Page | 776 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




cannot give evidence about why he killed those 
people.” 



“Why he killed them? Well, that’s no mystery, is it?” 
blustered Fudge. “He was a raving lunatic! From what 
Minerva and Severus have told me, he seems to have 
thought he was doing it all on You-Know- Who’s 
instructions!” 

“Lord Voldemort was giving him instructions, 
Cornelius,” Dumbledore said. “Those people’s deaths 
were mere by-products of a plan to restore Voldemort 
to full strength again. The plan succeeded. Voldemort 
has been restored to his body.” 

Fudge looked as though someone had just swung a 
heavy weight into his face. Dazed and blinking, he 
stared back at Dumbledore as if he couldn’t quite 
believe what he had just heard. He began to sputter, 
still goggling at Dumbledore. 

“You-Know- Who ... returned? Preposterous. Come 
now, Dumbledore ...” 

“As Minerva and Severus have doubtless told you,” 
said Dumbledore, “we heard Barry Crouch confess. 
Under the influence of Veritaserum, he told us how 
he was smuggled out of Azkaban, and how Voldemort 
— learning of his continued existence from Bertha 
Jorkins — went to free him from his father and used 
him to capture Harry. The plan worked, I tell you. 
Crouch has helped Voldemort to return.” 

“See here, Dumbledore,” said Fudge, and Harry was 
astonished to see a slight smile dawning on his face, 
“you — you can’t seriously believe that. You-Know- 
Who — back? Come now, come now . . . certainly, 
Crouch may have believed himself to be acting upon 

Page | 777 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




You-Know- Who’s orders — but to take the word of a 
lunatic like that, Dumbledore ...” 

“When Harry touched the Triwizard Cup tonight, he 
was transported straight to Voldemort,” said 
Dumbledore steadily. “He witnessed Lord Voldemort’s 
rebirth. I will explain it all to you if you will step up to 
my office.” 

Dumbledore glanced around at Harry and saw that he 
was awake, but shook his head and said, “I am afraid 
I cannot permit you to question Harry tonight.” 

Fudge’s curious smile lingered. He too glanced at 
Harry, then looked back at Dumbledore, and said, 
“You are — er — prepared to take Harry’s word on 
this, are you, Dumbledore?” 

There was a moment’s silence, which was broken by 
Sirius growling. His hackles were raised, and he was 
baring his teeth at Fudge. 

“Certainly, I believe Harry,” said Dumbledore. His 
eyes were blazing now. “I heard Crouch’s confession, 
and I heard Harry’s account of what happened after 
he touched the Triwizard Cup; the two stories make 
sense, they explain everything that has happened 
since Bertha Jorkins disappeared last summer.” 

Fudge still had that strange smile on his face. Once 
again, he glanced at Harry before answering. 

“You are prepared to believe that Lord Voldemort has 
returned, on the word of a lunatic murderer, and a 
boy who ... well ...” 

Fudge shot Harry another look, and Harry suddenly 
understood. 



Page | 778 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“You’ve been reading Rita Skeeter, Mr. Fudge,” he 
said quietly. 

Ron, Hermione, Mrs. Weasley, and Bill all jumped. 
None of them had realized that Harry was awake. 

Fudge reddened slightly, but a defiant and obstinate 
look came over his face. 

“And if I have?” he said, looking at Dumbledore. “If I 
have discovered that you’ve been keeping certain facts 
about the boy very quiet? A Parselmouth, eh? And 
having funny turns all over the place — ” 

“I assume that you are referring to the pains Harry 
has been experiencing in his scar?” said Dumbledore 
coolly. 

“You admit that he has been having these pains, 
then?” said Fudge quickly. “Headaches? Nightmares? 
Possibly — hallucinations?” 

“Listen to me, Cornelius,” said Dumbledore, taking a 
step toward Fudge, and once again, he seemed to 
radiate that indefinable sense of power that Harry 
had felt after Dumbledore had Stunned young 
Crouch. “Harry is as sane as you or I. That scar upon 
his forehead has not addled his brains. I believe it 
hurts him when Lord Voldemort is close by, or feeling 
particularly murderous.” 

Fudge had taken half a step back from Dumbledore, 
but he looked no less stubborn. 

“You’ll forgive me, Dumbledore, but I’ve never heard 
of a curse scar acting as an alarm bell before. ...” 

“Look, I saw Voldemort come back!” Harry shouted. 

He tried to get out of bed again, but Mrs. Weasley 

Page | 779 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




forced him back. “I saw the Death Eaters! I can give 
you their names! Lucius Malfoy — ” 

Snape made a sudden movement, but as Harry 
looked at him, Snape’s eyes flew back to Fudge. 

“Malfoy was cleared!” said Fudge, visibly affronted. “A 
very old family — donations to excellent causes — ” 

“Macnair!” Harry continued. 

“Also cleared! Now working for the Ministry!” 

“Avery — Nott — Crabbe — Goyle — ” 

“You are merely repeating the names of those who 
were acquitted of being Death Eaters thirteen years 
ago!” said Fudge angrily. “You could have found those 
names in old reports of the trials! For heaven’s sake, 
Dumbledore — the boy was full of some crackpot 
story at the end of last year too — his tales are getting 
taller, and you’re still swallowing them — the boy can 
talk to snakes, Dumbledore, and you still think he’s 
trustworthy?” 

“You fool!” Professor McGonagall cried. “Cedric 
Diggory! Mr. Crouch! These deaths were not the 
random work of a lunatic!” 

“I see no evidence to the contrary!” shouted Fudge, 
now matching her anger, his face purpling. “It seems 
to me that you are all determined to start a panic that 
will destabilize everything we have worked for these 
last thirteen years!” 

Harry couldn’t believe what he was hearing. He had 
always thought of Fudge as a kindly figure, a little 
blustering, a little pompous, but essentially good- 
natured. But now a short, angry wizard stood before 

Page | 780 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




him, refusing, point-blank, to accept the prospect of 
disruption in his comfortable and ordered world — to 
believe that Voldemort could have risen. 

“Voldemort has returned,” Dumbledore repeated. “If 
you accept that fact straightaway, Fudge, and take 
the necessary measures, we may still be able to save 
the situation. The first and most essential step is to 
remove Azkaban from the control of the dementors — ” 

“Preposterous!” shouted Fudge again. “Remove the 
dementors? I’d be kicked out of office for suggesting 
it! Half of us only feel safe in our beds at night 
because we know the dementors are standing guard 
at Azkaban!” 

“The rest of us sleep less soundly in our beds, 
Cornelius, knowing that you have put Lord 
Voldemort ’s most dangerous supporters in the care of 
creatures who will join him the instant he asks them!” 
said Dumbledore. “They will not remain loyal to you, 
Fudge! Voldemort can offer them much more scope 
for their powers and their pleasures than you can! 
With the dementors behind him, and his old 
supporters returned to him, you will be hard-pressed 
to stop him regaining the sort of power he had 
thirteen years ago!” 

Fudge was opening and closing his mouth as though 
no words could express his outrage. 

“The second step you must take — and at once,” 
Dumbledore pressed on, “is to send envoys to the 
giants.” 

“Envoys to the giants?” Fudge shrieked, finding his 
tongue again. “What madness is this?” 



Page | 781 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Extend them the hand of friendship, now, before it is 
too late,” said Dumbledore, “or Voldemort will 
persuade them, as he did before, that he alone among 
wizards will give them their rights and their freedom!” 

“You — you cannot be serious!” Fudge gasped, 
shaking his head and retreating further from 
Dumbledore. “If the magical community got wind that 
I had approached the giants — people hate them, 
Dumbledore — end of my career — ” 

“You are blinded,” said Dumbledore, his voice rising 
now, the aura of power around him palpable, his eyes 
blazing once more, “by the love of the office you hold, 
Cornelius! You place too much importance, and you 
always have done, on the so-called purity of blood! 

You fail to recognize that it matters not what someone 
is born, but what they grow to be! Your dementor has 
just destroyed the last remaining member of a pure- 
blood family as old as any — and see what that man 
chose to make of his life! I tell you now — take the 
steps I have suggested, and you will be remembered, 
in office or out, as one of the bravest and greatest 
Ministers of Magic we have ever known. Fail to act — 
and history will remember you as the man who 
stepped aside and allowed Voldemort a second chance 
to destroy the world we have tried to rebuild!” 

“Insane,” whispered Fudge, still backing away. “Mad 



And then there was silence. Madam Pomfrey was 
standing frozen at the foot of Harry’s bed, her hands 
over her mouth. Mrs. Weasley was still standing over 
Harry, her hand on his shoulder to prevent him from 
rising. Bill, Ron, and Hermione were staring at Fudge. 

“If your determination to shut your eyes will carry you 
as far as this, Cornelius,” said Dumbledore, “we have 

Page | 782 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




reached a parting of the ways. You must act as you 
see fit. And I — I shall act as I see fit.” 

Dumbledore ’s voice carried no hint of a threat; it 
sounded like a mere statement, but Fudge bristled as 
though Dumbledore were advancing upon him with a 
wand. 

“Now, see here, Dumbledore,” he said, waving a 
threatening finger. “I’ve given you free rein, always. 

I’ve had a lot of respect for you. I might not have 
agreed with some of your decisions, but I’ve kept 
quiet. There aren’t many who’d have let you hire 
werewolves, or keep Hagrid, or decide what to teach 
your students without reference to the Ministry. But if 
you’re going to work against me — ” 

“The only one against whom I intend to work,” said 
Dumbledore, “is Lord Voldemort. If you are against 
him, then we remain, Cornelius, on the same side.” 

It seemed Fudge could think of no answer to this. He 
rocked backward and forward on his small feet for a 
moment and spun his bowler hat in his hands. 

Finally, he said, with a hint of a plea in his voice, “He 
can’t be back, Dumbledore, he just can’t be ...” 

Snape strode forward, past Dumbledore, pulling up 
the left sleeve of his robes as he went. He stuck out 
his forearm and showed it to Fudge, who recoiled. 

“There,” said Snape harshly. “There. The Dark Mark. 

It is not as clear as it was an hour or so ago, when it 
burned black, but you can still see it. Every Death 
Eater had the sign burned into him by the Dark Lord. 
It was a means of distinguishing one another, and his 
means of summoning us to him. When he touched 
the Mark of any Death Eater, we were to Disapparate, 
and Apparate, instantly, at his side. This Mark has 
Page | 783 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




been growing clearer all year. Karkaroff’s too. Why do 
you think Karkaroff fled tonight? We both felt the 
Mark burn. We both knew he had returned. Karkaroff 
fears the Dark Lord’s vengeance. He betrayed too 
many of his fellow Death Eaters to be sure of a 
welcome back into the fold.” 

Fudge stepped back from Snape too. He was shaking 
his head. He did not seem to have taken in a word 
Snape had said. He stared, apparently repelled by the 
ugly mark on Snape ’s arm, then looked up at 
Dumbledore and whispered, “I don’t know what you 
and your staff are playing at, Dumbledore, but I have 
heard enough. I have no more to add. I will be in 
touch with you tomorrow, Dumbledore, to discuss the 
running of this school. I must return to the Ministry.” 

He had almost reached the door when he paused. He 
turned around, strode back down the dormitory, and 
stopped at Harry’s bed. 

“Your winnings,” he said shortly, taking a large bag of 
gold out of his pocket and dropping it onto Harry’s 
bedside table. “One thousand Galleons. There should 
have been a presentation ceremony, but under the 
circumstances ...” 

He crammed his bowler hat onto his head and walked 
out of the room, slamming the door behind him. The 
moment he had disappeared, Dumbledore turned to 
look at the group around Harry’s bed. 

“There is work to be done,” he said. “Molly ... am I 
right in thinking that I can count on you and 
Arthur?” 

“Of course you can,” said Mrs. Weasley. She was 
white to the lips, but she looked resolute. “We know 
what Fudge is. It’s Arthur’s fondness for Muggles that 

Page | 784 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




has held him back at the Ministry all these years. 
Fudge thinks he lacks proper wizarding pride.” 

“Then I need to send a message to Arthur,” said 
Dumbledore. “All those that we can persuade of the 
truth must be notified immediately, and he is well 
placed to contact those at the Ministry who are not as 
shortsighted as Cornelius.” 

“Ill go to Dad,” said Bill, standing up. “Ill go now.” 

“Excellent,” said Dumbledore. “Tell him what has 
happened. Tell him I will be in direct contact with him 
shortly. He will need to be discreet, however. If Fudge 
thinks I am interfering at the Ministry — ” 

“Leave it to me,” said Bill. 

He clapped a hand on Harry’s shoulder, kissed his 
mother on the cheek, pulled on his cloak, and strode 
quickly from the room. 

“Minerva,” said Dumbledore, turning to Professor 
McGonagall, “I want to see Hagrid in my office as 
soon as possible. Also — if she will consent to come — 
Madame Maxime.” 

Professor McGonagall nodded and left without a word. 

“Poppy,” Dumbledore said to Madam Pomfrey, “would 
you be very kind and go down to Professor Moody’s 
office, where I think you will find a house-elf called 
Winky in considerable distress? Do what you can for 
her, and take her back to the kitchens. I think Dobby 
will look after her for us.” 

“Very — very well,” said Madam Pomfrey, looking 
startled, and she too left. 



Page | 785 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Dumbledore made sure that the door was closed, and 
that Madam Pomfrey’s footsteps had died away, 
before he spoke again. 

“And now,” he said, “it is time for two of our number 
to recognize each other for what they are. Sirius ... if 
you could resume your usual form.” 

The great black dog looked up at Dumbledore, then, 
in an instant, turned back into a man. 

Mrs. Weasley screamed and leapt back from the bed. 

“Sirius Black!” she shrieked, pointing at him. 

“Mum, shut up!” Ron yelled. “It’s okay!” 

Snape had not yelled or jumped backward, but the 
look on his face was one of mingled fury and horror. 

“Him!” he snarled, staring at Sirius, whose face 
showed equal dislike. “What is he doing here?” 

“He is here at my invitation,” said Dumbledore, 
looking between them, “as are you, Severus. I trust 
you both. It is time for you to lay aside your old 
differences and trust each other.” 

Harry thought Dumbledore was asking for a near 
miracle. Sirius and Snape were eyeing each other 
with the utmost loathing. 

“I will settle, in the short term,” said Dumbledore, 
with a bite of impatience in his voice, “for a lack of 
open hostility. You will shake hands. You are on the 
same side now. Time is short, and unless the few of 
us who know the truth do not stand united, there is 
no hope for any of us.” 



Page | 786 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Very slowly — but still glaring at each other as 
though each wished the other nothing but ill — Sirius 
and Snape moved toward each other and shook 
hands. They let go extremely quickly. 

“That will do to be going on with,” said Dumbledore, 
stepping between them once more. “Now I have work 
for each of you. Fudge’s attitude, though not 
unexpected, changes everything. Sirius, I need you to 
set off at once. You are to alert Remus Lupin, Arabella 
Figg, Mundungus Fletcher — the old crowd. Lie low at 
Lupins for a while; I will contact you there.” 

“But — ” said Harry. 

He wanted Sirius to stay. He did not want to have to 
say goodbye again so quickly. 

“You’ll see me very soon, Harry,” said Sirius, turning 
to him. “I promise you. But I must do what I can, you 
understand, don’t you?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry. “Yeah ... of course I do.” 

Sirius grasped his hand briefly, nodded to 
Dumbledore, transformed again into the black dog, 
and ran the length of the room to the door, whose 
handle he turned with a paw. Then he was gone. 

“Severus,” said Dumbledore, turning to Snape, “you 
know what I must ask you to do. If you are ready ... if 
you are prepared ...” 

“I am,” said Snape. 

He looked slightly paler than usual, and his cold, 
black eyes glittered strangely. 



Page | 787 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Then good luck,” said Dumbledore, and he watched, 
with a trace of apprehension on his face, as Snape 
swept wordlessly after Sirius. 

It was several minutes before Dumbledore spoke 
again. 

“I must go downstairs,” he said finally. “I must see the 
Diggorys. Harry — take the rest of your potion. I will 
see all of you later.” 

Harry slumped back against his pillows as 
Dumbledore disappeared. Hermione, Ron, and Mrs. 
Weasley were all looking at him. None of them spoke 
for a very long time. 

“You’ve got to take the rest of your potion, Harry,” 

Mrs. Weasley said at last. Her hand nudged the sack 
of gold on his bedside cabinet as she reached for the 
bottle and the goblet. “You have a good long sleep. Try 
and think about something else for a while . . . think 
about what you’re going to buy with your winnings!” 

“I don’t want that gold,” said Harry in an 
expressionless voice. “You have it. Anyone can have 
it. I shouldn’t have won it. It should’ve been Cedric’s.” 

The thing against which he had been fighting on and 
off ever since he had come out of the maze was 
threatening to overpower him. He could feel a 
burning, prickling feeling in the inner corners of his 
eyes. He blinked and stared up at the ceiling. 

“It wasn’t your fault, Harry,” Mrs. Weasley whispered. 

“I told him to take the cup with me,” said Harry. 

Now the burning feeling was in his throat too. He 
wished Ron would look away. 

Page | 788 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Mrs. Weasley set the potion down on the bedside 
cabinet, bent down, and put her arms around Harry. 
He had no memory of ever being hugged like this, as 
though by a mother. The full weight of everything he 
had seen that night seemed to fall in upon him as 
Mrs. Weasley held him to her. His mother’s face, his 
father’s voice, the sight of Cedric, dead on the ground 
all started spinning in his head until he could hardly 
bear it, until he was screwing up his face against the 
howl of misery fighting to get out of him. 

There was a loud slamming noise, and Mrs. Weasley 
and Harry broke apart. Hermione was standing by the 
window. She was holding something tight in her 
hand. 

“Sorry,” she whispered. 

“Your potion, Harry,” said Mrs. Weasley quickly, 
wiping her eyes on the back of her hand. 

Harry drank it in one gulp. The effect was 
instantaneous. Heavy, irresistible waves of dreamless 
sleep broke over him; he fell back onto his pillows and 
thought no more. 



Page | 789 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 






THE BEGINNING 

When he looked back, even a month later, Harry 
found he had only scattered memories of the next few 
days. It was as though he had been through too much 
to take in any more. The recollections he did have 
were very painful. The worst, perhaps, was the 
meeting with the Diggorys that took place the 
following morning. 

They did not blame him for what had happened; on 
the contrary, both thanked him for returning Cedric’s 
body to them. Mr. Diggory sobbed through most of 
the interview. Mrs. Diggory ’s grief seemed to be 
beyond tears. 

“He suffered very little then,” she said, when Harry 
had told her how Cedric had died. “And after all, 

Amos ... he died just when he’d won the tournament. 
He must have been happy.” 

When they got to their feet, she looked down at Harry 
and said, “You look after yourself, now.” 

Page | 790 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 



Harry seized the sack of gold on the bedside table. 

“You take this,” he muttered to her. “It should’ve been 
Cedric’s, he got there first, you take it — ” 

But she backed away from him. 

“Oh no, it’s yours, dear, I couldn’t ... you keep it.” 

Harry returned to Gryffindor Tower the following 
evening. From what Hermione and Ron told him, 
Dumbledore had spoken to the school that morning 
at breakfast. He had merely requested that they leave 
Harry alone, that nobody ask him questions or badger 
him to tell the story of what had happened in the 
maze. Most people, he noticed, were skirting him in 
the corridors, avoiding his eyes. Some whispered 
behind their hands as he passed. He guessed that 
many of them had believed Rita Skeeter’s article 
about how disturbed and possibly dangerous he was. 
Perhaps they were formulating their own theories 
about how Cedric had died. He found he didn’t care 
very much. He liked it best when he was with Ron 
and Hermione and they were talking about other 
things, or else letting him sit in silence while they 
played chess. He felt as though all three of them had 
reached an understanding they didn’t need to put 
into words; that each was waiting for some sign, some 
word, of what was going on outside Hogwarts — and 
that it was useless to speculate about what might be 
coming until they knew anything for certain. The only 
time they touched upon the subject was when Ron 
told Harry about a meeting Mrs. Weasley had had 
with Dumbledore before going home. 

“She went to ask him if you could come straight to us 
this summer,” he said. “But he wants you to go back 
to the Dursleys, at least at first.” 



Page | 791 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Why?” said Harry. 

“She said Dumbledore’s got his reasons,” said Ron, 
shaking his head darkly. “I suppose we’ve got to trust 
him, haven’t we?” 

The only person apart from Ron and Hermione that 
Harry felt able to talk to was Hagrid. As there was no 
longer a Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, they 
had those lessons free. They used the one on 
Thursday afternoon to go down and visit Hagrid in his 
cabin. It was a bright and sunny day; Fang bounded 
out of the open door as they approached, barking and 
wagging his tail madly. 

“Who’s that?” called Hagrid, coming to the door. 

“ Harry\” 

He strode out to meet them, pulled Harry into a one- 
armed hug, ruffled his hair, and said, “Good ter see 
yeh, mate. Good ter see yeh.” 

They saw two bucket-size cups and saucers on the 
wooden table in front of the fireplace when they 
entered Hagrid ’s cabin. 

“Bin havin’ a cuppa with Olympe,” Hagrid said. “She’s 
jus’ left.” 

“Who?” said Ron curiously. 

“Madame Maxime, o’ course!” said Hagrid. 

“You two made up, have you?” said Ron. 

“Dunno what yeh’re talkin’ about,” said Hagrid airily, 
fetching more cups from the dresser. When he had 
made tea and offered around a plate of doughy 



Page | 792 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




cookies, he leaned back in his chair and surveyed 
Harry closely through his beetle-black eyes. 

“You all righ’?” he said gruffly. 

“Yeah,” said Harry. 

“No, yeh’re not,” said Hagrid. “ ’Course yeh’re not. But 
yeh will be.” 

Harry said nothing. 

“Knew he was goin’ ter come back,” said Hagrid, and 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked up at him, shocked. 
“Known it fer years, Harry. Knew he was out there, 
bidin’ his time. It had ter happen. Well, now it has, 
an’ we’ll jus’ have ter get on with it. We’ll fight. Migh’ 
be able ter stop him before he gets a good hold. That’s 
Dumbledore’s plan, anyway. Great man, Dumbledore. 
’S long as we’ve got him, I’m not too worried.” 

Hagrid raised his bushy eyebrows at the disbelieving 
expressions on their faces. 

“No good sittin’ worryin’ abou’ it,” he said. “What’s 
cornin’ will come, an’ we’ll meet it when it does. 
Dumbledore told me wha’ you did, Harry.” 

Hagrid’s chest swelled as he looked at Harry. 

“Yeh did as much as yer father would’ve done, an’ I 
can’ give yeh no higher praise than that.” 

Harry smiled back at him. It was the first time he’d 
smiled in days. “What’s Dumbledore asked you to do, 
Hagrid?” he asked. “He sent Professor McGonagall to 
ask you and Madame Maxime to meet him — that 
night.” 



Page | 793 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Got a little job fer me over the summer,” said Hagrid. 
“Secret, though. I’m not s’pposed ter talk abou’ it, no, 
not even ter you lot. Olympe — Madame Maxime ter 
you — might be cornin’ with me. I think she will. 
Think I got her persuaded.” 

“Is it to do with Voldemort?” 

Hagrid flinched at the sound of the name. 

“Migh’ be,” he said evasively. “Now ... who’d like ter 
come an’ visit the las’ skrewt with me? I was jokin’ — 
jokin’!” he added hastily, seeing the looks on their 
faces. 



k k k 



It was with a heavy heart that Harry packed his trunk 
up in the dormitory on the night before his return to 
Privet Drive. He was dreading the Leaving Feast, 
which was usually a cause for celebration, when the 
winner of the Inter-House Championship would be 
announced. He had avoided being in the Great Hall 
when it was full ever since he had left the hospital 
wing, preferring to eat when it was nearly empty to 
avoid the stares of his fellow students. 

When he, Ron, and Hermione entered the Hall, they 
saw at once that the usual decorations were missing. 
The Great Hall was normally decorated with the 
winning House’s colors for the Leaving Feast. Tonight, 
however, there were black drapes on the wall behind 
the teachers’ table. Harry knew instantly that they 
were there as a mark of respect to Cedric. 

The real Mad-Eye Moody was at the staff table now, 
his wooden leg and his magical eye back in place. He 
was extremely twitchy, jumping every time someone 



Page | 794 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




spoke to him. Harry couldn’t blame him; Moody’s fear 
of attack was bound to have been increased by his 
ten-month imprisonment in his own trunk. Professor 
Karkaroff’s chair was empty. Harry wondered, as he 
sat down with the other Gryffindors, where Karkaroff 
was now, and whether Voldemort had caught up with 
him. 

Madame Maxime was still there. She was sitting next 
to Hagrid. They were talking quietly together. Further 
along the table, sitting next to Professor McGonagall, 
was Snape. His eyes lingered on Harry for a moment 
as Harry looked at him. His expression was difficult to 
read. He looked as sour and unpleasant as ever. 

Harry continued to watch him, long after Snape had 
looked away. 

What was it that Snape had done on Dumbledore’s 
orders, the night that Voldemort had returned? And 
why ... why ... was Dumbledore so convinced that 
Snape was truly on their side? He had been their spy, 
Dumbledore had said so in the Pensieve. Snape had 
turned spy against Voldemort, “at great personal 
risk.” Was that the job he had taken up again? Had 
he made contact with the Death Eaters, perhaps? 
Pretended that he had never really gone over to 
Dumbledore, that he had been, like Voldemort 
himself, biding his time? 

Harry’s musings were ended by Professor 
Dumbledore, who stood up at the staff table. The 
Great Hall, which in any case had been less noisy 
than it usually was at the Leaving Feast, became very 
quiet. 

“The end,” said Dumbledore, looking around at them 
all, “of another year.” 



Page | 795 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




He paused, and his eyes fell upon the Hufflepuff 
table. Theirs had been the most subdued table before 
he had gotten to his feet, and theirs were still the 
saddest and palest faces in the Hall. 

“There is much that I would like to say to you all 
tonight,” said Dumbledore, “but I must first 
acknowledge the loss of a very fine person, who 
should be sitting here,” he gestured toward the 
Hufflepuffs, “enjoying our feast with us. I would like 
you all, please, to stand, and raise your glasses, to 
Cedric Diggory.” 

They did it, all of them; the benches scraped as 
everyone in the Hall stood, and raised their goblets, 
and echoed, in one loud, low, rumbling voice, “Cedric 
Diggory.” 

Harry caught a glimpse of Cho through the crowd. 
There were tears pouring silently down her face. He 
looked down at the table as they all sat down again. 

“Cedric was a person who exemplified many of the 
qualities that distinguish Hufflepuff house,” 
Dumbledore continued. “He was a good and loyal 
friend, a hard worker, he valued fair play. His death 
has affected you all, whether you knew him well or 
not. I think that you have the right, therefore, to 
know exactly how it came about.” 

Harry raised his head and stared at Dumbledore. 

“Cedric Diggory was murdered by Lord Voldemort.” 

A panicked whisper swept the Great Hall. People were 
staring at Dumbledore in disbelief, in horror. He 
looked perfectly calm as he watched them mutter 
themselves into silence. 



Page | 796 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“The Ministry of Magic,” Dumbledore continued, “does 
not wish me to tell you this. It is possible that some of 
your parents will be horrified that I have done so — 
either because they will not believe that Lord 
Voldemort has returned, or because they think I 
should not tell you so, young as you are. It is my 
belief, however, that the truth is generally preferable 
to lies, and that any attempt to pretend that Cedric 
died as the result of an accident, or some sort of 
blunder of his own, is an insult to his memory.” 

Stunned and frightened, every face in the Hall was 
turned toward Dumbledore now ... or almost every 
face. Over at the Slytherin table, Harry saw Draco 
Malfoy muttering something to Crabbe and Goyle. 
Harry felt a hot, sick swoop of anger in his stomach. 
He forced himself to look back at Dumbledore. 

“There is somebody else who must be mentioned in 
connection with Cedric’s death,” Dumbledore went 
on. “I am talking, of course, about Harry Potter.” 

A kind of ripple crossed the Great Hall as a few heads 
turned in Harry’s direction before flicking back to face 
Dumbledore. 

“Harry Potter managed to escape Lord Voldemort,” 
said Dumbledore. “He risked his own life to return 
Cedric’s body to Hogwarts. He showed, in every 
respect, the sort of bravery that few wizards have ever 
shown in facing Lord Voldemort, and for this, I honor 
him.” 

Dumbledore turned gravely to Harry and raised his 
goblet once more. Nearly everyone in the Great Hall 
followed suit. They murmured his name, as they had 
murmured Cedric’s, and drank to him. But through a 
gap in the standing figures, Harry saw that Malfoy, 
Crabbe, Goyle, and many of the other Slytherins had 
Page | 797 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




remained defiantly in their seats, their goblets 
untouched. Dumbledore, who after all possessed no 
magical eye, did not see them. 

When everyone had once again resumed their seats, 
Dumbledore continued, “The Triwizard Tournament’s 
aim was to further and promote magical 
understanding. In the light of what has happened — 
of Lord Voldemort’s return — such ties are more 
important than ever before.” 

Dumbledore looked from Madame Maxime and 
Hagrid, to Fleur Delacour and her fellow Beauxbatons 
students, to Viktor Krum and the Durmstrangs at the 
Slytherin table. Krum, Harry saw, looked wary, 
almost frightened, as though he expected Dumbledore 
to say something harsh. 

“Every guest in this Hall,” said Dumbledore, and his 
eyes lingered upon the Durmstrang students, “will be 
welcomed back here at any time, should they wish to 
come. I say to you all, once again — in the light of 
Lord Voldemort’s return, we are only as strong as we 
are united, as weak as we are divided. Lord 
Voldemort’s gift for spreading discord and enmity is 
very great. We can fight it only by showing an equally 
strong bond of friendship and trust. Differences of 
habit and language are nothing at all if our aims are 
identical and our hearts are open. 

“It is my belief — and never have I so hoped that I am 
mistaken — that we are all facing dark and difficult 
times. Some of you in this Hall have already suffered 
directly at the hands of Lord Voldemort. Many of your 
families have been torn asunder. A week ago, a 
student was taken from our midst. 

“Remember Cedric. Remember, if the time should 
come when you have to make a choice between what 

Page | 798 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




is right and what is easy, remember what happened 
to a boy who was good, and kind, and brave, because 
he strayed across the path of Lord Voldemort. 
Remember Cedric Diggory.” 

Harry’s trunk was packed; Hedwig was back in her 
cage on top of it. He, Ron, and Hermione were waiting 
in the crowded entrance hall with the rest of the 
fourth years for the carriages that would take them 
back to Hogsmeade station. It was another beautiful 
summer’s day. He supposed that Privet Drive would 
be hot and leafy, its flower beds a riot of color, when 
he arrived there that evening. The thought gave him 
no pleasure at all. 

“ ’Arry!” 

He looked around. Fleur Delacour was hurrying up 
the stone steps into the castle. Beyond her, far across 
the grounds, Harry could see Hagrid helping Madame 
Maxime to back two of the giant horses into their 
harness. The Beauxbatons carriage was about to take 
off. 

“We will see each uzzer again, I ’ope,” said Fleur as 
she reached him, holding out her hand. “I am ’oping 
to get a job ’ere, to improve my Eenglish.” 

“It’s very good already,” said Ron in a strangled sort of 
voice. Fleur smiled at him; Hermione scowled. 

“Good-bye, ’Arry,” said Fleur, turning to go. “It ’az 
been a pleasure meeting you!” 

Harry’s spirits couldn’t help but lift slightly as he 
watched Fleur hurry back across the lawns to 
Madame Maxime, her silvery hair rippling in the 
sunlight. 



Page | 799 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Wonder how the Durmstrang students are getting 
back,” said Ron. “D’you reckon they can steer that 
ship without Karkaroff?” 

“Karkaroff did not steer,” said a gruff voice. “He 
stayed in his cabin and let us do the vork.” 

Krum had come to say good-bye to Hermione. 

“Could I have a vord?” he asked her. 

“Oh ... yes ... all right,” said Hermione, looking 
slightly flustered, and following Krum through the 
crowd and out of sight. 

“You’d better hurry up!” Ron called loudly after her. 
“The carriages’ll be here in a minute!” 

He let Harry keep a watch for the carriages, however, 
and spent the next few minutes craning his neck over 
the crowd to try and see what Krum and Hermione 
might be up to. They returned quite soon. Ron stared 
at Hermione, but her face was quite impassive. 

“I liked Diggory,” said Krum abruptly to Harry. “He 
vos alvays polite to me. Alvays. Even though I vos 
from Durmstrang — with Karkaroff,” he added, 
scowling. 

“Have you got a new headmaster yet?” said Harry. 

Krum shrugged. He held out his hand as Fleur had 
done, shook Harry’s hand, and then Ron’s. Ron 
looked as though he was suffering some sort of 
painful internal struggle. Krum had already started 
walking away when Ron burst out, “Can I have your 
autograph?” 



Page | 800 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione turned away, smiling at the horseless 
carriages that were now trundling toward them up the 
drive, as Krum, looking surprised but gratified, signed 
a fragment of parchment for Ron. 



The weather could not have been more different on 
the journey back to King’s Cross than it had been on 
their way to Hogwarts the previous September. There 
wasn’t a single cloud in the sky. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione had managed to get a compartment to 
themselves. Pigwidgeon was once again hidden under 
Ron’s dress robes to stop him from hooting 
continually; Hedwig was dozing, her head under her 
wing, and Crookshanks was curled up in a spare seat 
like a large, furry ginger cushion. Harry, Ron, and 
Hermione talked more fully and freely than they had 
all week as the train sped them southward. Harry felt 
as though Dumbledore’s speech at the Leaving Feast 
had unblocked him, somehow. It was less painful to 
discuss what had happened now. They broke off their 
conversation about what action Dumbledore might be 
taking, even now, to stop Voldemort only when the 
lunch trolley arrived. 

When Hermione returned from the trolley and put her 
money back into her schoolbag, she dislodged a copy 
of the Daily Prophet that she had been carrying in 
there. Harry looked at it, unsure whether he really 
wanted to know what it might say, but Hermione, 
seeing him looking at it, said calmly, “There’s nothing 
in there. You can look for yourself, but there’s 
nothing at all. I’ve been checking every day. Just a 
small piece the day after the third task saying you 
won the tournament. They didn’t even mention 
Cedric. Nothing about any of it. If you ask me, Fudge 
is forcing them to keep quiet.” 



Page | 801 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“He’ll never keep Rita quiet,” said Harry. “Not on a 
story like this.” 

“Oh, Rita hasn’t written anything at all since the third 
task,” said Hermione in an oddly constrained voice. 
“As a matter of fact,” she added, her voice now 
trembling slightly, “Rita Skeeter isn’t going to be 
writing anything at all for a while. Not unless she 
wants me to spill the beans on her.” 

“What are you talking about?” said Ron. 

“I found out how she was listening in on private 
conversations when she wasn’t supposed to be 
coming onto the grounds,” said Hermione in a rush. 

Harry had the impression that Hermione had been 
dying to tell them this for days, but that she had 
restrained herself in light of everything else that had 
happened. 

“How was she doing it?” said Harry at once. 

“How did you find out?” said Ron, staring at her. 

“Well, it was you, really, who gave me the idea, 

Harry,” she said. 

“Did I?” said Harry, perplexed. “How?” 

“Bugging,” said Hermione happily. 

“But you said they didn’t work — ” 

“Oh not electronic bugs,” said Hermione. “No, you see 
... Rita Skeeter” — Hermione ’s voice trembled with 
quiet triumph — “is an unregistered Animagus. She 
can turn — ” 



Page | 802 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




Hermione pulled a small sealed glass jar out of her 
bag. 

“ — into a beetle.” 

“You’re kidding,” said Ron. “You haven’t ... she’s not 



“Oh yes she is,” said Hermione happily, brandishing 
the jar at them. 

Inside were a few twigs and leaves and one large, fat 
beetle. 

“That’s never — you’re kidding — ” Ron whispered, 
lifting the jar to his eyes. 

“No, I’m not,” said Hermione, beaming. “I caught her 
on the windowsill in the hospital wing. Look very 
closely, and you 11 notice the markings around her 
antennae are exactly like those foul glasses she 
wears.” 

Harry looked and saw that she was quite right. He 
also remembered something. 

“There was a beetle on the statue the night we heard 
Hagrid telling Madame Maxime about his mum!” 

“Exactly,” said Hermione. “And Viktor pulled a beetle 
out of my hair after we’d had our conversation by the 
lake. And unless I’m very much mistaken, Rita was 
perched on the windowsill of the Divination class the 
day your scar hurt. She’s been buzzing around for 
stories all year.” 

“When we saw Malfoy under that tree ...” said Ron 
slowly. 



Page | 803 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“He was talking to her, in his hand,” said Hermione. 
“He knew, of course. That’s how she’s been getting all 
those nice little interviews with the Slytherins. They 
wouldn’t care that she was doing something illegal, as 
long as they were giving her horrible stuff about us 
and Hagrid.” 

Hermione took the glass jar back from Ron and 
smiled at the beetle, which buzzed angrily against the 
glass. 

“I’ve told her I’ll let her out when we get back to 
London,” said Hermione. “I’ve put an Unbreakable 
Charm on the jar, you see, so she can’t transform. 

And I’ve told her she’s to keep her quill to herself for a 
whole year. See if she can’t break the habit of writing 
horrible lies about people.” 

Smiling serenely, Hermione placed the beetle back 
inside her schoolbag. 

The door of the compartment slid open. 

“Very clever, Granger,” said Draco Malfoy. 

Crabbe and Goyle were standing behind him. All 
three of them looked more pleased with themselves, 
more arrogant and more menacing, than Harry had 
ever seen them. 

“So,” said Malfoy slowly, advancing slightly into the 
compartment and looking slowly around at them, a 
smirk quivering on his lips. “You caught some 
pathetic reporter, and Potter’s Dumbledore’s favorite 
boy again. Big deal.” 

His smirk widened. Crabbe and Goyle leered. 



Page | 804 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Trying not to think about it, are we?” said Malfoy 
softly, looking around at all three of them. “Trying to 
pretend it hasn’t happened?” 

“Get out,” said Harry. 

He had not been this close to Malfoy since he had 
watched him muttering to Crabbe and Goyle during 
Dumbledore’s speech about Cedric. He could feel a 
kind of ringing in his ears. His hand gripped his wand 
under his robes. 

“You’ve picked the losing side, Potter! I warned you! I 
told you you ought to choose your company more 
carefully, remember? When we met on the train, first 
day at Hogwarts? I told you not to hang around with 
riffraff like this!” He jerked his head at Ron and 
Hermione. “Too late now, Potter! They’ll be the first to 
go, now the Dark Lord’s back! Mudbloods and 
Muggle-lovers first! Well — second — Diggory was the 
f— ” 

It was as though someone had exploded a box of 
fireworks within the compartment. Blinded by the 
blaze of the spells that had blasted from every 
direction, deafened by a series of bangs, Harry 
blinked and looked down at the floor. 

Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle were all lying unconscious 
in the doorway. He, Ron, and Hermione were on their 
feet, all three of them having used a different hex. Nor 
were they the only ones to have done so. 

“Thought we’d see what those three were up to,” said 
Fred matter-of-factly, stepping onto Goyle and into 
the compartment. He had his wand out, and so did 
George, who was careful to tread on Malfoy as he 
followed Fred inside. 



Page | 805 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Interesting effect,” said George, looking down at 
Crabbe. “Who used the Furnunculus Curse?” 

“Me,” said Harry. 

“Odd,” said George lightly. “I used Jelly-Legs. Looks 
as though those two shouldn’t be mixed. He seems to 
have sprouted little tentacles all over his face. Well, 
let’s not leave them here, they don’t add much to the 
decor.” 

Ron, Harry, and George kicked, rolled, and pushed 
the unconscious Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle — each of 
whom looked distinctly the worse for the jumble of 
jinxes with which they had been hit — out into the 
corridor, then came back into the compartment and 
rolled the door shut. 

“Exploding Snap, anyone?” said Fred, pulling out a 
pack of cards. 

They were halfway through their fifth game when 
Harry decided to ask them. 

“You going to tell us, then?” he said to George. “Who 
you were blackmailing?” 

“Oh,” said George darkly. “ That 

“It doesn’t matter,” said Fred, shaking his head 
impatiently. “It wasn’t anything important. Not now, 
anyway.” 

“We’ve given up,” said George, shrugging. 

But Harry, Ron, and Hermione kept on asking, and 
finally, Fred said, “All right, all right, if you really 
want to know ... it was Ludo Bagman.” 



Page | 806 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Bagman?” said Harry sharply. “Are you saying he 
was involved in — ” 

“Nah,” said George gloomily. “Nothing like that. 

Stupid git. He wouldn’t have the brains.” 

“Well, what, then?” said Ron. 

Fred hesitated, then said, “You remember that bet we 
had with him at the Quidditch World Cup? About how 
Ireland would win, but Krum would get the Snitch?” 

“Yeah,” said Harry and Ron slowly. 

“Well, the git paid us in leprechaun gold he’d caught 
from the Irish mascots.” 

“So?” 

“So,” said Fred impatiently, “it vanished, didn’t it? By 
next morning, it had gone!” 

“But — it must’ve been an accident, mustn’t it?” said 
Hermione. 

George laughed very bitterly. 

“Yeah, that’s what we thought, at first. We thought if 
we just wrote to him, and told him he’d made a 
mistake, he’d cough up. But nothing doing. Ignored 
our letter. We kept trying to talk to him about it at 
Hogwarts, but he was always making some excuse to 
get away from us.” 

“In the end, he turned pretty nasty,” said Fred. “Told 
us we were too young to gamble, and he wasn’t giving 
us anything.” 



Page | 807 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“So we asked for our money back,” said George 
glowering. 

“He didn’t refuse!” gasped Hermione. 

“Right in one,” said Fred. 

“But that was all your savings!” said Ron. 

“Tell me about it,” said George. “ ’Course, we found 
out what was going on in the end. Lee Jordan’s dad 
had had a bit of trouble getting money off Bagman as 
well. Turns out he’s in big trouble with the goblins. 
Borrowed loads of gold off them. A gang of them 
cornered him in the woods after the World Cup and 
took all the gold he had, and it still wasn’t enough to 
cover all his debts. They followed him all the way to 
Hogwarts to keep an eye on him. He’s lost everything 
gambling. Hasn’t got two Galleons to rub together. 
And you know how the idiot tried to pay the goblins 
back?” 

“How?” said Harry. 

“He put a bet on you, mate,” said Fred. “Put a big bet 
on you to win the tournament. Bet against the 
goblins.” 

“So that’s why he kept trying to help me win!” said 
Harry. “Well — I did win, didn’t I? So he can pay you 
your gold!” 

“Nope,” said George, shaking his head. “The goblins 
play as dirty as him. They say you drew with Diggory, 
and Bagman was betting you’d win outright. So 
Bagman had to run for it. He did run for it right after 
the third task.” 



Page | 808 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




George sighed deeply and started dealing out the 
cards again. 

The rest of the journey passed pleasantly enough; 
Harry wished it could have gone on all summer, in 
fact, and that he would never arrive at King’s Cross . . . 
but as he had learned the hard way that year, time 
will not slow down when something unpleasant lies 
ahead, and all too soon, the Hogwarts Express was 
pulling in at platform nine and three-quarters. The 
usual confusion and noise filled the corridors as the 
students began to disembark. Ron and Hermione 
struggled out past Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle, 
carrying their trunks. Harry, however, stayed put. 

“Fred — George — wait a moment.” 

The twins turned. Harry pulled open his trunk and 
drew out his Triwizard winnings. 

“Take it,” he said, and he thrust the sack into 
George’s hands. 

“What?” said Fred, looking flabbergasted. 

“Take it,” Harry repeated firmly. “I don’t want it.” 

“You’re mental,” said George, trying to push it back at 
Harry. 

“No, I’m not,” said Harry. “You take it, and get 
inventing. It’s for the joke shop.” 

“He is mental,” Fred said in an almost awed voice. 

“Listen,” said Harry firmly. “If you don’t take it, I’m 
throwing it down the drain. I don’t want it and I don’t 
need it. But I could do with a few laughs. We could all 



Page | 809 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




do with a few laughs. I’ve got a feeling we’re going to 
need them more than usual before long.” 

“Harry,” said George weakly, weighing the money bag 
in his hands, “there’s got to be a thousand Galleons 
in here.” 

“Yeah,” said Harry, grinning. “Think how many 
Canary Creams that is.” 

The twins stared at him. 

“Just don’t tell your mum where you got it ... 
although she might not be so keen for you to join the 
Ministry anymore, come to think of it. ...” 

“Harry,” Fred began, but Harry pulled out his wand. 

“Look,” he said flatly, “take it, or I’ll hex you. I know 
some good ones now. Just do me one favor, okay? 

Buy Ron some different dress robes and say they’re 
from you.” 

He left the compartment before they could say 
another word, stepping over Malfoy, Crabbe, and 
Goyle, who were still lying on the floor, covered in hex 
marks. 

Uncle Vernon was waiting beyond the barrier. Mrs. 
Weasley was close by him. She hugged Harry very 
tightly when she saw him and whispered in his ear, “I 
think Dumbledore will let you come to us later in the 
summer. Keep in touch, Harry.” 

“See you, Harry,” said Ron, clapping him on the back. 

“ ’Bye, Harry!” said Hermione, and she did something 
she had never done before, and kissed him on the 
cheek. 

Page | 810 Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




“Harry — thanks,” George muttered, while Fred 
nodded fervently at his side. 

Harry winked at them, turned to Uncle Vernon, and 
followed him silently from the station. There was no 
point worrying yet, he told himself, as he got into the 
back of the Dursleys’ car. 

As Hagrid had said, what would come, would come... 
and he would have to meet it when it did. 



Page | 811 



Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire - J.K. Rowling 




